                          Council Communication

To:           Mayor and Village Council

Through:      Maria Aguilar, Acting Village Manager

From:         Cheryl Cioffari, AICP, LEED Green Associate, Director of Planning

Date:         February 13, 2014

SUBJECT:      APPLICATION FOR MAJOR CONDITIONAL USE (MJ-13-01) BY
              81001 OVERSEAS HIGHWAY LLC

Background:
A. Owner and Applicant: The property owner is Preferred Income Partners IC, LLC (the
   "Owner") and the applicant is 81001 Overseas Highway LLC (the "Applicant").

B. Proposed Development: In 2011, pursuant to Resolution 11-06-43, the Village Council
   approved Major Conditional Use Approval MJ-10-03 for the development of a new 22,237-
   square-foot supermarket and accessory structures on the Property. The Applicant has
   submitted a conditional use application to redevelop the Property by demolishing all existing
   development and constructing a new 22,237-square-foot supermarket (the "Proposed
   Development") with a different site design than was previously approved. The proposed
   tenant of the supermarket would be Winn-Dixie.

   On November 14, 2013 the Proposed Development came before the Village Council for
   consideration and the item was tabled. The Applicant submitted revised plans on January 9,
   2014. The Applicant is proposing cross access with the existing parking lot on the adjacent
   property to the northwest, known as the Iguana Club (the "Morada Parcel") in order to
   provide for tractor trailer turning maneuverability and egress and a parking agreement to
   provide ten (10) of the required off-street parking spaces for the Proposed Development on
   the Morada Parcel. The proposed cross access would necessitate modifications to the existing
   Morada Parcel parking lot. The plans submitted on January 9, 2014 also reflect a
   modification to the parking areas on the subject property to address some of the concerns
   raised with regards to tractor trailer maneuverability.

C. Location: The Property is located at 81001 Overseas Highway on Upper Matecumbe Key
   with Real Estate Number 00397810-000000 (the "Property"). The Property is commonly
   known by the business located on it, Islamorada Dry Cleaners. Businesses formerly located
   on the Property include a Centennial Bank loan center, DeMoss Financial, and Silver Law
   Group.

                                          Page 1 of 12
D. Character of Property: The 2.24-acre Property is currently developed with two commercial
   buildings, including one 2,560-square-foot office building, one 4,116-square-foot office/retail
   building, and accessory structures and uses. The Property is considered environmentally
   disturbed with invasive exotics, according to the submitted Vegetation Survey prepared by
   Harry A. DeLashmutt dated February 17, 2011 (Attachment A). The property is within the
   AE-8 and X FEMA flood zones according to the submitted survey by David Barrow
   (Attachment B).




                                                                            Figure 1:
                                                                    Future Land Use Map


                                                                 FLUM Categories
                                                                    A Airstrip
                                                                    C Conservation
                                                                    I Industrial
                                                                    M Mariculture
                                                                    MU Mixed Use
                                                                    PS Public/Semi-Public Services
                                                                    RC Residential Conservation
                                                                    RH Residential High
                                                                    RL Residential Low
                                                                    RM Residential Medium
                                                                    RO Recreation and Open Space




                                           Page 2 of 12
                                                                           Figure 2:
                                                                    Official Zoning Map


                                                               Zoning Districts
                                                                 C Conservation
                                                                 CF Commercial Fishing
                                                                 HC Highway Commercial
                                                                 I Industrial
                                                                 M Mariculture
                                                                 MF Multifamily
                                                                 MH Mobile Home Park
                                                                 MR Marine Use
                                                                 NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                 NR Native Residential
                                                                 PS Public & Semi-Public Services
                                                                 R Recreation
                                                                 R1 Residential Single-Family
                                                                 R1M Res. Single-Family - Masonry
                                                                 R2 Residential Duplex
                                                                 RE Residential Estate
                                                                 RMH Residential Mobile Home
                                                                 SR Settlers Residential
                                                                 TA Tavernaero
                                                                 TC Tourist Commercial
                                                                 VC Village Center


E. Future Land Use Map (FLUM) Category and Zoning District: The Property is within the
   Mixed Use (MU) FLUM Category of the Comprehensive Plan and the Highway Commercial
   (HC) Zoning District according to the Official Zoning Map, as shown above in Figures 1 and
   2 respectively.

Analysis:
Pursuant to Section 30-218 of the Code of Ordinances (the "Code") of Islamorada, Village of
Islands, Florida (the "Village"), applications for Major Cond itional Use must be considered by
the Village Council for approval, approval with conditions or denial based on the standards in
Code Chapter 30, Land Development Regulations (LDRs).

Pursuant to Code Section 30-216(d), when considering an application for a Conditional Use, the
Director of Planning and Development Services (the "Director") and Vi llage Council shall
consider the following factors, and no conditional use shall be approved which fails to meet any
standard below. Failure to comply with any standard shall be deemed adverse to the public
interest.

(1) The proposed conditional use is consistent with the purposes, goals, objectives and policies
    of the Comprehensive Plan, including standards for building and structural intensities and
    densities, and intensities of use;

   Comprehensive Plan Policy 1-2.1.4 restricts the density and intensity of development in the
   Village. The Property is within the MU FLUM category, which has a maximum density of

                                          Page 3 of 12
   six units per acre for market-rate housing or hotel rooms and 15 units per acre for affordable
   housing, and a maximum non-residential intensity or floor area ratio (FAR) of 0.25 outside
   Village Activity Centers.

   The Proposed Development of 22,237 square feet of nonresidential floor area on the 97,702-
   square-foot Property would result in a 0.23 FAR. No residential density exists or is proposed
   on the Property. Therefore, the Proposed Development is consistent with the Comprehensive
   Plan's standards for intensities and densities of use.

   Staff review indicates that the Applicant has included the enclosed loading dock,
   approximately 697 square feet, in the calculation of the nonresidential floor area. Pursuant to
   Code Section 30-32, the definition of floor area, nonresidential, specifically exempts parking
   and loading areas from the calculation of nonresidential floor area. Therefore, Staff asserts
   that the Proposed Development consists of 21,540 square feet of nonresidential floor area
   which would result in a 0.22 FAR.

   Staff found the Proposed Development consistent with other purposes, goals, objectives and
   policies of the Comprehensive Plan elsewhere in this report. Specifically, Staff found the
   Proposed Development inconsistent with Policy 1-1.1.2: Ensure Orderly Land Use
   Transition; Policy 1-2.4.1: Guide the Location of Commercial Uses and Revitalize
   Commercial Areas; Policy 1-2.5.1: Prevent Nuisance Impacts; and Policy 1-4.10.6: Manage
   Current Developmental Impacts.
   IN COMPLIANCE

(2) The proposed conditional use complies with all relevant and appropriate portions of the
    LDRs.

   The Applicant has submitted plans (Attachment C) pursuant to Code Section 30-215(d) that
   meet all the general criteria of the LDRs. Specific criteria apply to this development as
   follows:

   Zoning District:
   Pursuant to Code Section 30-696(d)(1), any permitted use greater than 5,000 square feet
   (except restaurants) within the HC Zoning District must be reviewed as a Major Conditional
   Use. The intent and purpose of the HC Zoning District is to accommodate existing businesses
   along U.S. 1 and to provide opportunities for new commercial retail shops and services that
   typically are auto dependent and are used by people on less than a weekly basis, or to
   accommodate the building and service trades. The Proposed Development is consistent with
   the purpose of this district provided all requirements of the Code are met.
   IN COMPLIANCE

   Height:
   Pursuant to Code Section 30-696(e)(2), the maximum building height is 35 feet. The
   proposed supermarket building would have a maximum height of 34'3". The height of the
   proposed structure would be in compliance with the LDRs.
   IN COMPLIANCE


                                           Page 4 of 12
Setbacks:
The following table summarizes the required and provided setbacks within the HC Zoning
District pursuant to Code Section 30-696(e)(4):

 Setback            Required                                            Provided
 Front yard         20 feet. Front yard setback may be reduced to 138.03 feet
 (Overseas          the minimum required bufferyard width only for
 Highway):          covered unenclosed areas, outdoor seating areas,
                    balconies, roof overhangs, walkways, stairways
                    and entryways.
 Front yard (Old    20 feet                                             30.06 feet
 Highway):
 Interior side      5 feet                                               5 feet (NE side);
 yard:                                                                  51.3 feet (SW side)

The Applicant has provided for the required setbacks according to the submitted site plan.
IN COMPLIANCE

Density/Intensity:
Pursuant to Code Section 30-696(e)(5), the maximum intensity (floor area ratio) for principal
structures within the HC Zoning District is 0.25 FAR. The Applicant indicates that the
Proposed Development consists of 22,237 square feet of nonresidential floor area which
would result in a 0.23 FAR, which is under the 0.25 maximum FAR. Staff review indicates
that the Applicant has included the enclosed loading dock, approximately 697 square feet, in
the calculation of the nonresidential floor area. Pursuant to Code Section 30-32, the
definition of floor area, nonresidential, specifically exempts parking and loading areas from
the calculation of nonresidential floor area. Therefore, Staff asserts that the Proposed
Development consists of 21,540 square feet of nonresidential floor area which would result
in a 0.22 FAR.

No residential density exists or is proposed on the Property. Therefore, the Proposed
Development is consistent with the Code's density and i ntensity provisions.
IN COMPLIANCE

Open Space/Habitat:
The Property is classified as disturbed with invasive exotics habitat, which has a minimum
20% open space requirement pursuant to Code Section 30-1614(a). The site plan indicates
20% open space would be provided.
IN COMPLIANCE

Landscaping Standards:
As required by the LDRs, the Applicant would provide the following landscaping:
 A 30-foot-wide Class E scenic corridor along Overseas Highway;
 A 30-foot-wide Class E scenic corridor along Old Highway;

                                       Page 5 of 12
   A 20-foot-wide Class D zoning district boundary bufferyard along the southwestern side
   property line with the adjacent Settlers Residential (SR) Zoning District; and
 7,328 square feet of off-street parking landscaping (Sheet SP-1.01 of Attachment C).
IN COMPLIANCE

Parking:
Code Chapter 30, Article V, Division 7 sets forth the off-street parking, loading and
driveway standards in the Village. A total of 109 off-street parking spaces are required, plus
two 10'x50' loading spaces. Two 10'x40' oversized vehicle spaces are also required by the
Administrative Design Review Standards. The Applicant proposes to utilize the 5% parking
credit by installing three bike racks with space for up to seven bicycles each.

The Applicant proposes to provide 93 off-street parking spaces on the subject property,
including five handicap accessible spaces, four oversized vehicle spaces and two loading
spaces. Additionally, the Applicant proposes to utilize ten (10) off-street parking spaces on
the adjacent Morada Parcel to fulfill the parking requirements. The Applicant has shown
these ten (10) off-street parking spaces meet the minimum requirements and the access aisle
that exists on the Morada Parcel has sufficient width to allow for ingress and egress to the
parking spaces. However, the Applicant has failed to demonstrate how a customer or
employee would locate the off-street parking available on the Morada Parcel nor has the
Applicant demonstrated how a pedestrian would access the Proposed Development from the
Morada Parcel.

The Applicant submitted a Parking Reduction Study (Attachment D) and subsequently a
Memorandum from Kimley-Horn and Associates dated January 8, 2014 (Attachment E)
regarding the Parking Reduction Study and providing shared parking analysis. The Applicant
submitted a Memorandum from Kimley-Horn and Associates dated January 9, 2014
(Attachment F) responding to comments related to site circulation from Kittelson and
Associates, the Village's Traffic Engineer. The Applicant proposes to utilize ten (10) off-
street parking spaces on the Morada Parcel to fulfill the parking requirements set forth in the
Code for the Proposed Development; however, the Parking Reduction Study and subsequent
Memorandums, including the shared parking analysis, contain misstatements. Kimley-Horn
asserts that the existing off-street parking on the Morada Parcel which is deficient is a
nonconforming use. Staff disagrees with the Applicants assertion and with the methodology
utilized by the Applicant's consultants in the presented shared parking analysis.

Pursuant to Code Section 30-852(d), "the purpose of the shared parking option is to permit a
reduction in the total number of parking spaces which would otherwise be required in
instances where two or more uses on the same lot or separate lots are to share the same
parking spaces because their peak parking demands do not occur at the same time." The
Morada Parcel contains 40 seats of outdoor seating, 7,797 square feet of nonresidential floor
area and two (2) residential units which would require a total of 127 off-street parking
spaces. Sheet SP-1.01b of Attachment C indicates a total of 48 off-street parking spaces on
the Morada Parcel which is approximately 37.8% of the off-street parking required for a
restaurant. The minimum shared parking requirement for the two parcels based on the
Applicant's proposal is 220 off-street parking spaces. With regards to the Parking Reduction
Study, pursuant to Code Section 30-825(d)(4), "the director may reduce the required parking
requirements based on a parking demand study approved by the director. The methodology
                                        Page 6 of 12
for conducting the study shall be submitted for review and approval by the director and shall
include, but not be limited to the week and day the study will be conducted, the number of
days and duration of the study, and the time intervals and locations for data collection. The
study shall be reviewed by the director, and he shall, at his discretion, determine whether the
parking study supports the basis for the parking reduction request." Based on the proposed
use of the subject Property and the historic restaurant use of the Morada Parcel, there is not
sufficient parking to share between the parcels and therefore you cannot apply Code Section
30-822(d)(4).

The Applicant submitted the Parking Reduction Study and Shared Parking Analysis,
however, the proposal is for dedication of ten (10) of the existing off-street parking spaces on
the Morada Parcel to the Proposed Development as there is not a sufficient number of off-
street parking spaces to share. A Declaration of Restrictive Covenants or similar legal
instrument limiting the use(s) on the Morada Parcel to ensure adequate parking is available
has not been proffered by the Applicant or the Morada Parcel's owner. That said, the
Applicant and their legal counsel have been working with the Village on a Cross-Access and
Parking Agreement to allow for the proposed tractor-trailer maneuverability and the
dedication of the ten (10) off-street parking spaces on the Morada Parcel to the Proposed
Development.

As stated above, Staff review indicates that the Applicant has included the enclosed loading
dock, approximately 697 square feet, in the calculation of the nonresidential floor area.
Pursuant to Code Section 30-32, the definition of floor area, nonresidential, specifically
exempts parking and loading areas from the calculation of nonresidential floor area. The
removal of the extra 697 square feet would reduce the required parking. Based on the revised
calculations of the nonresidential floor area, a total of 105 off-street parking spaces, two
10'x50' loading spaces and two 10'x40' oversized vehicle spaces are required. Utilizing the
5% parking credit, a total of 100 parking spaces are required, including five handicap
accessible spaces and two oversized vehicle spaces, plus two loading spaces. This reduction
in floor area would decrease the number of required off-street parking spaces. Even with this
reduction, there is not a sufficient amount of parking on the two parcels to utilize the shared
parking reduction provided for in Code Section 30-852(d).
NOT IN COMPLIANCE

Affordable Housing Standards:
During the approval process of Major Conditional Use MJ-10-03, the then Applicant (Net
Five-FDA at Islamorada, LLC) submitted an Affordable Housing Mitigation Plan as required
by Code Chapter 30, Article IV, Division 16, since the Proposed Development would result
in the expansion of a non-residential retail use which was approved the Village Council on
June 23, 2011 pursuant to Resolution 11-06-37 (Attachment G). The total affordable housing
need resulting from the Proposed Development would be 4.2068 units or 10.769 persons. The
approved Affordable Housing Mitigation Plan provides for the construction of two off-site
affordable residential dwelling units of at least three bedrooms and 900 square feet each,
which would have occupancy for up to 10 persons needing affordable housing. This
Agreement runs with the Property to any subsequent Developer. The Mitigation Plan is
therefore in compliance with the Affordable Housing Standards of the LDRs.
IN COMPLIANCE

                                        Page 7 of 12
Administrative Design Review Standards:
Pursuant to Code Section 30-215(d)(20), the Proposed Development is subject to the
Administrative Design Review Standards for nonresidential development projects. The
following table summarizes the required and provided design review standards:

Administrative Design
                      Requirement                         Provided
Review Standards
Roof pitch            Max 8/12, no flat roofs.            Varied roof forms, no pitches
                                                          exceed 8/12 slope.
Awnings                   No translucent, no backlit      None proposed.
Building transparency     Min 35% per 50 LF on 1st        Façade transparency between
                          floor; mural; landscaping; or   38.0% and 39.8% per 50 linear
                          combo                           feet.
Building articulation     1 per 50 LF; Min 5' deep,       Façade and roof both articulated
                          15' wide                        as required.
Building orientation      1 Clearly identifiable entry    Entry clearly identifiable from US
                                                          1; one sidewalk proposed.
Drive-throughs / drive-   Sec. 30-215(d)(20)f.            None proposed.
ins
Car washes                Sec. 30-215(d)(20)g.            None proposed.
Utilities                 Must be completely screened     Rooftop utilities will not be
                                                          visible from adjacent streets;
                                                          other utilities will be screened
                                                          with landscaping or a screening
                                                          wall.
Building location         If 10,000 SF or more on 1       Class E scenic corridor proposed.
                          site
Pedestrian access         1 ped walkway from street       One walkway from U.S. 1 bike
                                                          path proposed.
Vehicle access            When practical, access to       Only one driveway proposed from
                          off-street parking on           U.S. 1. No access from Old
                          property adjacent to both       Highway proposed.
                          U.S. 1 and Old Highway
                          shall be made from U.S. 1.
Cross access & parking    Required when practical         Cross access to facilitate the
                                                          movement of truck traffic exiting
                                                          the site and the dedication of ten
                                                          (10) parking spaces from the
                                                          Morada Parcel have been
                                                          proposed.
Oversized vehicle         1-2 spaces may be required      Four oversized vehicle spaces
parking                                                   proposed.
Multi-use / bicycle       Improvements required           Noted on plans. If approved, staff
paths                                                     recommends condition of
                                                          approval.
Newspaper boxes           Screened/enclosed on 3 sides    Not indicated.


                                      Page 8 of 12
   The Applicant has provided for the applicable Administrative Design Review Standards
   according to the submitted site plan.
   IN COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS

(3) The proposed conditional use is compatible and generally consistent with the uses and
    character of the land surrounding and in the vicinity of the land proposed for development;

   The surrounding land is characterized by commercial uses to the northeast, west, and
   southwest; low and medium density residential uses to the southeast and southwest; and
   Village-owned conservation and public uses to the north. Specifically, the Property directly
   abuts a now-closed restaurant and bar to the northeast known as the Iguana Club (the
   "Morada Parcel"); the Galleria shopping center with retail, office and restaurant uses to the
   southwest; and a single-family residence to the southwest. Adjacent to the Property across
   Overseas Highway to the northwest is Centennial Bank and the Village's 10.4-acre Green
   Turtle Hammock Preserve. Adjacent to the Property across Old Highway to the southeast are
   private residences within the Settlers Residential (SR) and Residential Estate (RE) Zoning
   Districts.

   Plans submitted by the Applicant show the following changes to the previously approved
   plan (MJ-10-03): the required loading spaces, the backup generator and the trash compactor
   have been relocated to the northeast property line and away from the existing single-family
   residence; the 20-foot-wide Class D zoning district boundary bufferyard is now located
   entirely on the subject Property; an eight-foot screening wall is proposed along the southwest
   property line, setback ten feet, along the adjacent property that contains a single-family
   residence. An eight-foot wall has also been indicated along the Old Highway, setback 20 feet
   from the property line, for the length of the subject property. The backup generator and the
   trash compactor are proposed to be located approximately 230 feet from the abutting single-
   family residence on the opposite side of the proposed supermarket along the northeast
   property line.

   The Comprehensive Plan contains several policies that include ensuring orderly land use
   transition (Policy 1-1.1.2), guiding the location of commercial uses (Policy 1-2.4.1),
   preventing nuisance impacts (Policy 1-2.5.1), and managing current developmental impacts
   (Policy 1-4.10.6).

   In response to these concerns, the Applicant has proposed enclosing the loading dock area
   with a masonry screening wall up to 15.5 feet high with gates in front (see the East Elevation
   on sheet SP-1.04 of Attachment C), installing approximately twice as many plants as the
   LDRs require within the 20-foot-wide Class D zoning district boundary bufferyard between
   the SR and HC Zoning Districts (see the landscape plan on sheet LP-1.05 of Attachment C),
   partially roofing the loading dock area and using noise reducing materials in the construction
   of the screening wall. Trash compactor collections would occur no more often than twice a
   week, and the compactor would only be operated during store hours.

   Due to the Applicant's proposed efforts to mitigate various negative impacts associated with
   the proposed loading dock area, generator and trash compactor, and the relocation of these
   areas to the northeast property line, Staff finds it in compliance with the above mentioned
                                          Page 9 of 12
   Comprehensive Plan policies as well as this standard. Furthermore, the Applicant has
   submitted Agreements between: (1) Win-Development, LLC as Agent for the Applicant and
   Robert and Susan Johnson and (2) Win-Development, LLC as Agent for the Applicant and
   Coral Cove Resort (Attachment H) that address concerns raised by some of the adjacent
   property owners.
   IN COMPLIANCE

(4) The design of the proposed conditional use minimizes adverse effects, including visual
    impact and intensity of the proposed use on adjacent lands;

   Staff has identified potential safety concerns about pedestrian and vehicular traffic conflicts
   that would result from the Proposed Development along Overseas Highway. In coordination
   with Village and FDOT staff, the Applicant proposed several safety improvements to
   Overseas Highway including a new dedicated center deceleration and left turn lane, new
   northbound and southbound bus stop pull outs, and a new striped pedestrian crossing. See the
   site plan on sheet SP-1.01 or the layout plan on sheet C-1 of Attachment C for depictions of
   the improvements.

   Throughout the review of the Proposed Development, staff has raised concerns about
   potentially adverse safety impacts due to the location of the loading dock, the layout of the
   parking lot and the single driveway access to the Property. Site design solutions are
   extremely limited since the minimum amount of off-street parking and landscaping (among
   other requirements) must also be provided, and the Code and Comprehensive Plan
   discourage vehicular access from the Old Highway. The Applicant has revised the plans to
   minimize these concerns and has made the following changes:
        Modified the parking lot layout and relocated ten (10) of the off-street parking spaces
           to the Morada Parcel;
        Designated 13 off-street parking spaces as employee-only along the eastern property
           line;
        Increased the access aisle along the eastern property line from 30 feet to 31 feet;
        Modified the curbed areas along the eastern property line to provide better
           maneuverability of the tractor trailers, specifically along the area of cross access with
           the Morada Parcel;
        Submitted plans indicating the movement of tractor trailers existing the Morada
           Parcel and heading northbound and southbound (Sheet SP-1.01c of Attachment C);
           and
        Revised the plans to show a tractor-trailer with WB-65 (wheel base is 65 feet) as
           opposed to a WB-50 as was shown in earlier iterations.

   The submitted plans propose cross access with the adjacent parking lot of the Morada Parcel
   located to the northeast. The proposed cross access would allow tractor trailer trucks to
   maneuver on to the Morada Parcel in order to provide backup and approach to the Winn-
   Dixie loading dock, and to exit the property. The Morada Parcel would require improvements
   to allow for such cross access and egress.

   The Comprehensive Plan and LDRs contain several policies providing for the promotion of
   safety and prevention of hazards including:

                                           Page 10 of 12
      Comprehensive Plan Policy 1-2.4.1, Guide the Location of Commercial Uses and
      Revitalize Commercial Areas, which states: "The general pattern of commercial land uses
      in [the MU FLUM category] shall...[promote] safe and ef ficient vehicle, cyclist and
      pedestrian movement."
      Code Section 30-1(b) states: "It is further the purpose of [the LDRs] to foster and
      preserve public health, safety, comfort and welfare, and to aid in the harmonious, orderly
      and progressive development of the village."
      Code Section 30-211 states: "It is the intent and purpose of this article to promote the
      public health, safety, morals, convenience, comfort, amenities, prosperity, order,
      appearance, and general welfare of the community."
      Code Section 30-851(b) states: "It is also the intent to provide adequate parking and safe
      vehicle movements while minimizing any detrimental effects to adjacent properties, to
      surrounding neighborhoods and to the environment."
      Code Section 30-851(e)(5) states: "Parking and loading areas, associated driveways and
      vehicle maneuvering areas shall be maintained to preserve their intended function and to
      prevent nuisances or hazards to people, surrounding properties and public rights-of-way."

   In response to these concerns, the Architect of record has stated that " the Developer and
   Tenant will stipulate that no `tractor trailers' shall deliver (back into the loading area) during
   store hours and no `tractor trailers' shall egress/exit during peak store hours as determined by
   Traffic Study provided by Richard Eichinger."

   The submitted plans address many of the comments provided by the Village; however, the
   site plan configuration continues to leave little margin for error regarding safe truck turning
   radius. If the Major Conditional Use is approved by Village Council, Staff recommends
   conditions including requiring the Applicant to obtain all FDOT permits necessary to
   construct the required Overseas Highway improvements, which include a dedicated center
   southbound one way left turn lane providing accessing to the site entrance, new northbound
   and southbound bus stop pull outs, a new striped pedestrian crossing with raised pavement
   markings around the center island, as depicted on the approved site plan, and a spacing
   standard variance between the subject Property and Morada Parcel, prior to issuance of any
   building permit.
   IN COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS

(5) The Proposed Development complies with Division 5 (Concurrency Management) [of Article
    IV of the LDRs];

   According to the submitted Level III traffic study and the addendum dated April 8, 2013, by
   Richard P. Eichinger of Keys Traffic Studies, LLC (Attachment I), the Proposed
   Development would increase daily trips to the Property; however, there would not be an
   increase from the previously approved Major Conditional Use Approval MJ-10-03. Based on
   the submitted letters of coordination from FDOH, FDOT, FKAA, FKEC and SFWMD
   (Attachment J), there is not anticipated to be any negative impact to LOS standards for other
   public facilities.
   IN COMPLIANCE




                                            Page 11 of 12
(6) The proposed conditional use minimizes environmental impacts, including but not limited to
    water, air, stormwater management, wildlife, vegetation, wetlands and the natural
    functioning of the environment; and

   The Proposed Development is for the redevelopment of previously-developed land that is
   classified as environmentally disturbed with invasive exotic vegetation and would not affect
   the natural functioning of the environment. The Applicant would provide a Code-compliant
   stormwater management system that would function to retain stormwater on site and would
   provide all required landscaping. Any overall environmental impacts would be minimized
   through the transplantation (as opposed to replacement) of existing native and non-invasive
   vegetation, the removal of all invasive exotic vegetation, the installation of landscape
   bufferyards, new wastewater treatment facility, and stormwater retention methods.
   IN COMPLIANCE

(7) The proposed conditional use will result in logical, timely and orderly development patterns.

   The Applicant proposes to construct the project in one continuous phase. The Applicant's
   construction management plan states: "The Plan will be implemented in one (1) Phase. All
   staging/construction will be contained on site and will be surrounded with a screened chain
   link fence. All employee parking will be on site. All construction traffic will enter and exit
   off of Overseas Highway. The Developer will follow all required building codes during
   construction of the project."
   IN COMPLIANCE

Budget Impact:
Any budget impact for the processing of associated subsequent development permits would be
offset by the collection of all applicable building permit fees and impact fees.

Staff Impact:
Staff impact would be limited to the processing of associated subsequent development permits.

Recommendation:
Based upon Staff analysis and findings that the Proposed Development does not meet all of the
standards for approving a conditional use pursuant to Code Section 30-216(d), Staff recommends
that the Village Council DENY the Applicant's request for Major Conditional Use through the
proposed Resolution (Attachment K).




                                           Page 12 of 12
                                                           Attachment A


           VEGETATION SURVEY

                                of
 Land Parcels Proposed for "Market at Islamorada"
Parcel Numbers - # 00397810-000000 (81001 O/S Hwy),
    Upper Matecumbe Key, Village of Islamorada
              Monroe County, Florida
               Sec 05 Twn 64 Rge 37



                               for
             Wesley S. DeFoor, FDA Properties, LLC
             3565 Piedmont RD, Bldg. 1, Suite#530
                       Atlanta, GA 30305



                           Updated
                       February 17, 2011




   Prepared by:   Harry A. DeLashmutt - Biosurveys, Inc.
                  794 26th Street
                  Marathon, Florida 33050
                  Phone ­ (305) 942-9221
                        Email ­ hdelashmutt@comcast.net
                                                              Market at Islamorada
                                                              81001 Overseas Hwy
                                                              Village of Islamorada
                                                              Monroe County, Florida



                                        Vegetation Survey
The site visit and survey of the subject property was conducted on February 17, 2011 by the
undersigned. Originally, the December 2010 Vegetation Survey included the tracts on each side of
this parcel. This Survey revises the earlier one. The 2.24 acre subject parcel is located near mile
marker 81 on the Overseas Highway in the Florida Keys. The parcel is extensively developed with
three commercial buildings and parking areas. Open space is covered with predominantly invasive
exotic vegetation mixed with scattered native plants and trees. Much of the understory is gone and
the area can be classified as "Disturbed with Exotics".

In addition to the overall survey or inventory of plants, the parcel was inspected for vegetation
listed as threatened, of special concern, protected, regionally important, commercially exploited, or
any endangered species. Any wetlands located on the parcel were to be delineated and documented
by mapping. There are no wetlands identified on the parcel. The Village's "Wetland Lot List" was
accessed to derive information as to any known wetland occurrence or scoring from the KEYWEP
or Florida Keys Wetlands Evaluation Procedure on the subject tract. The Village and Monroe
County Protected Animal Species maps were accessed and showed no zones of habitat in the area
of this parcel.




View of Existing Development and Buffer fm Overseas Hwy   Typical Remnant Hammock Vegetation on Parcel



General Description of Parcel Vegetation:
The parcel contains remnants of hardwood hammock that once existed in the area. There are large
Gumbo Limbo, Green Buttonwood, Jamaica Dogwood, Blolly, and Poisonwood trees
representative of the dominant woody species. As development has occurred in the past,
landscaping and required planting around parking areas and buffers has introduced other native and
exotic plant species that are mixed with the hammock remnant vegetation. These plants are much


                                                          2
smaller in size and are not what could be expected to occur naturally on the site. Typical of this
category are Satinleaf, Cinnecord, Florida Thatch Palms, Sable Palms, and Royal Poinciana. The
majority of the open space at the south end of the development is overgrown with invasive exotics.
Some mechanical mowing has kept the developed area open of understory and ground cover
vegetation. There are no indications of functional wetlands or seasonal wetlands on this subject
parcel.

Vegetative Analysis of Property
There are mature native woody trees and bushes on the property. In accordance with the Village
Land Development Regulations, any native plant that measures 3.5 inches or greater in diameter at
breast height (DBH) requires mitigation by transplanting or other means if impacted by use or
development. The survey identifies these trees and locates them with their DBH in inches on the
Survey Map of the parcel attached to this survey. Survey mapping by BSM surveying. Each plant
that meets these criteria is marked with red marking paint visible at eye level.

As with any property or development in Florida, invasive exotic vegetation is a real problem for the
owner. The State of Florida - Pest Plant Council has compiled a listing of the most threatening
exotic plants on the natural environment or what they refer to as Class I invasive exotic pest plants.
Those with only a potential to get out of control are given a Class II designation. Plants listed as
Class I exotics must be eradicated from the property as a condition of development in accordance
the Village Code. The Code requires continual maintenance to control the pest species by the
property owner after any eradication measure. It is highly recommended that the Class II exotics
also be removed from the property. These pest plants are identified generally on the Survey Map
by a triangle symbol with a letter for the invasive species found. They are listed on the inventory.

Plant Numbers Found on Parcel:
The following regulated and listed species by numbers of plants found on the parcel ­

                              Size DBH -              3.5-10"        11-20"         21+"

                   B          Buttonwood              26          9
                   BB         Blackbead               9
                   BI         Black Ironwood          5
                   BL         Blolly                  36
                   C          Coconut Palm            1
                   CC         Cats Claw               1
                   CI         Cinnecord               1
                   D          Darling Plum            1
                   G          Gumbo Limbo             76          29
                   J          Jamaica Dogwood         1           1
                   M          Mahogany                1           2
                   P          Poisonwood              2           2
                   PP         Pigeon Plum             2
                   R          Randia                  9
                   RP         Royal Poincianna        0 Exotic    1                 1
                   SB         Silver Buttonwood       2        2 Hedges


                                                  3
                   SF         Strangler Fig            1
                   SG         Sea Grape                1          2 Hedges
                   SL         Satinleaf                1
                   SN         Snoutpea                 6
                   SP         Spicewood                1
                   SS         Spanish Stopper          3
                   T          Fla. Thatch Palm         20

                              Total Plants ­ 255       (Regulated or Listed)

Protected or Endangered Species (Listed Plants):
There are listed, protected or endangered species found on this parcel. They are listed below. Each
listed plant is also marked with orange tree paint and mapped as to location and size ­ both DBH or
height in feet if small. The species are 4 Endangered Species, 2 Threatened, and 1 Regionally
Important. Numbers of plants in these categories are below. These are required to be mitigated for
if impact occurs to them from any development. A review of the Village's and Monroe County's
"Protected or Endangered Species Maps" revealed no wildlife habitat issues or zones of probable
occurrence for the subject lot. There is suitable browse or foraging of vegetative habitat but no
cover habitat for nesting or natural uses for wildlife. During this survey work on the lot, there were
signs of birds using the vegetation for forage or resting. No signs of - or sitings of arboreal snails
were observed on the native or hammock trees.

Plant Codes for The Vegetative Species List Below are:
Protected (P); Threatened (T); Endangered (E); Regionally Important (RI); Invasive Exotic (IEX);
Exotic (EX); Native plant codes are (N) followed by their status or value.


                                                                  Market at Islamorada
                                                                  Upper Matecumbe Key
                                Vegetative Species List
Common Name                   Scientific Name                                  Status      Notes
Green Buttonwood              Conocarpus erectus                               N
Beggars Tick                  Desmodium canum                                  N
Black Ironwood                Krugiodendron ferreum                            N - RI
Blackbead                     Pithecellobium guadalupense                      N
Blolly                        Guapita longifolia                               N
Beggars Lice                  Desmodium spp                                    N
Cats Claw                     Pithecellobium guadalupense                      N
Capeweed                      Phyla nodiflora                                  N
Cinnecord                     Acacia choriophylla                              N-E
Crabwood                      Ateramnus lucidus                                N
Everglades Velvetseed         Guettarda elliptica                              N
Firebush                      Hamelia patens                                   N
Florida Thatch Palm           Thrinax radiata                                  N-E
Earleaf Greenbriar Vine       Smilax auriculata                                N


                                                   4
Gray Nickerbean          Caesalpinia bonduc             N
Gumbo Limbo              Bursera simaruda               N
Jamaica Dogwood          Piscidia piscipula             N
Jamaica Caper            Capparis cynophallophora       N
Limber Caper             Capparis flexuosa              N
Marlberry                Ardisia escallonioides         N
Morning Glory            Ipomoea muscari                N
Mouses Pineapple         Morinda royoc                  N
Pigeon Plum              Coccoloba diversfolia          N
Poisonwood               Metopium toxiferum             N
Randia                   Randia aculeate                N
Sabal Palm               Sabal palmetto                 N
Satinleaf                Chrysophyllum oliviforme       N-T
Scorpion tail            Heliotropium angiospermum      N
Sea Grape                Coccoloba uvifera              N
Silver Buttonwood        Conocarpus erectus sericerus   N sub-species
Snowberry                Chiococca alba                 N
Snoutpea                 Rhyncosia swartzii             N-E
Strangler Fig            Ficus aurea                    N
Strongbark               Bourreria ovate                N
Spanish Stopper          Eugenia foetida                N
Spanish Needles          Bidens alba                    N
Spicewood                Calyptranthes pallens          N-T
Spurge                   Chamaesyce spp                 N
Sweet Acacia             Acacia farnesiana              N
Virginia Creeper         Parthenocissus quinquefolia    N
West Indies Mahogany     Swietenia mahagoni             N-E
White Stopper            Eugenia axillaries             N
Wild Coffee              Psychotria nervosa             N
Wild Lantana             Lantana involucrate            N
Wild Lime                Zanthoxylum fagara             N


Dominant Exotic Plants
Bougainvillea            Bougainvillea spp.             EX
Royal Poinciana          Delonix regia                  EX
Coconut Palm             Cocos nucifera                 EX
Pigmy Date Palm          Phoenix robellinii             EX
Jatropha                 Jatropha hastate               EX
Liriope                  Liriope muscari                EX
Areca Palm               Chrysalidocarpus lutescens     EX
Christmas Palm           Veitchia Merrillii             EX
Sentry Palm              Howea belmoreana               EX
Croton                   Croton spp                     EX




                                           5
Invasive Exotic Plants:
Australian Pine               Casuarina equisetifolia                        IEX I
Black Olive                   Bucida buceras                                 IEXIII
Brazilian Pepper              Schinus terebinthifolius                       IEX I
Crowsfoot grass               Dactyloctenium aegyptium                       IEX III
Lead Tree                     Leucaena leucocephala                          IEX I
Mahoe                         Thespesia populnea                             IEX I
Umbrella Tree                 Schefflera actinophylla                        IEX I
Oyster Plant                  Rhoeo discolor                                 IEX II

Conclusion and Recommendations:
The invasive exotic vegetation on this parcel is the dominant woody species on the three tract
parcel. Native trees found on the parcel are remnants of past hammock or have been planted as
landscaping or buffer requirements for development. There is a wide diversity of plant species
found scattered around the parcel mixed with invasive exotics. There are 236 regulated or listed
native trees or plants growing on the parcel. The proper classification for the parcel is "Disturbed
with Exotics". There are eight different species of invasive exotic plants found growing with some
creating a dense overgrown canopy that prevents native plants from growing. These invasives are
spreading rapidly and should be checked as soon as possible. The rear half of the Parcel contains
the majority of invasive plants. The front or highway side is scarified with clusters of native trees
and little understory or ground cover. There are exotic and native grasses that are moved as lawn
areas between parking areas and on the buffer strips. Relatively small diameters of tree boles
indicate second growth of the hammock remnants. There are four different endangered species,
two threatened and one Regionally Important species found growing on the parcel. There were no
significant signs or observations of wildlife using this parcel for habitat.

Contacts:
Please contact Harry DeLashmutt at (305) 942-9221 for any further analysis, recommendations or
questions concerning this vegetative survey. Contact the Village Planning Staff for specific
requirements or permits necessary for any action dealing with the removal or disturbance of
vegetation on this site.

Map References:
The Vegetation Survey Map of the regulated and listed trees or plants found on this parcel is drawn
over the land survey conducted by BSM of Tavernier. The trees and listed plants are identified on
the land survey copy in their locations as an alpha character representing the species (see plant code
list below) and a numeral that represents the size of the tree by either a single number as diameter
at breast height (DBH) in inches or overall height for small trees and bushes as a number with the
foot symbol (`). All invasive exotic plants are indicated by a triangle with the invasive species code
centered in the triangle. Unless noted otherwise, all regulated trees are over ten (10) feet in height.
Map drawings are oriented with a north directional bearing shown on the map.


Survey and report conducted by Harry DeLashmutt ____________________________
              Biosurveys, Inc.           Consulting Biologist February 17, 2011




                                                  6
         Plant Codes Used on Survey Map
B        Buttonwood
BB       Blackbead
BI       Black Ironwood
BL       Blolly
C        Coconut Palm
CC       Cats Claw
CI       Cinnecord
D        Darling Plum
G        Gumbo Limbo
J        Jamaica Dogwood
M        West Indies Mahogany
P        Poisonwood
PP       Pigeon Plum
R        Randia
RP       Royal Poincianna
SB       Silver Buttonwood
SF       Strangler Fig
SG       Sea Grape
SL       Satinleaf
SN       Snoutpea
SS       Spanish Stopper
SP       Spicewood
T        Florida Thatch Palm



 Plant Codes for Invasive Exotics on Map
Invasive Exotic Code as Used in Map Triangle Symbols

A        Australian Pine
B        Brazilian Pepper
BO       Black Olive
H        Bowstring Hemp
L        Lead Tree
M        Mahoe
O        Oyster Plant
U        Umbrella Tree




                            7
Aerial View of Parcel ­ fm Palmis 2009




                  8
9
Attachment B
Attachment C
                                                               Attachment D



             Parking Reduction Study
             for Submittal to Islamorada,

                                                  
             Village of Islands



                                                 Winn Dixie
                          81001 Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5)




   ã2011 Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
   October 2011
   043504000
Parking Reduction Study
for Submittal to Islamorada,
Village of Islands




Winn Dixie
81001 Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5)
Prepared for:

Win-Development, LLC
Bellaire Beach, Florida




Prepared by:

Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
Fort Lauderdale, Florida




ã2011 Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
October 2011
043504000
                                                                                                                     Parking Reduction Study




                                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                      Page

INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................................... 1
DATA COLLECTION...................................................................................................................... 3
             Parking Demand Data Collection ..................................................................................... 3
             Population Data .............................................................................................................. 9
PARKING DEMAND ANALYSIS ................................................................................................... 10
             Comparable Store Parking Demand .............................................................................. 10
             ITE's Parking Generation Parking Demand .................................................................... 11
CONCLUSIONS .......................................................................................................................... 12


                                                                  LIST OF APPENDICES
 APPENDIX A:                        Methodology Correspondence
 APPENDIX B:                        Parking Demand Data
 APPENDIX C:                        Census Data


                                                                      LIST OF FIGURES
                                                                                                                                      Page

Figure 1: Site Location Map ........................................................................................................ 2


                                                                       LIST OF TABLES
                                                                                                                                      Page

Table 1: Friday, September 16, 2011 Parking Demand Data........................................................ 7
Table 2: Saturday, September 17, 2011 Parking Demand Data .................................................. 8
Table 3: Year 2009 Municipality Population Information ............................................................ 9
Table 4: Calculated Proportional Parking Demand .................................................................... 10
Table 5: Calculated Parking Demand based on ITE's Parking Generation, 3rd Edition ................ 11




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - i                              October 2011
                                                                                                    Parking Reduction Study



                                                                       INTRODUCTION

Win-Development, LLC is proposing to develop a 22,237 square-foot free-standing Winn Dixie
grocery store in Islamorada, Florida. The site is located at 81001 (milemarker 81) Overseas
Highway (US 1/SR 5). The proposed development is seeking a parking reduction in order to
accommodate 10 foot wide parking spaces on the site to provide ease of customer access. The
current site plan was approved by the Village with varying parking spaces widths between 8.5,
9.0, and 9.5 foot wide. The site provides a total of 100 parking spaces. Ninety-eight (98)
parking spaces are required by the Village parking code. The increased parking space width will
result in a parking reduction of approximately 20 spaces on the site. This corresponds to a 20.4
percent (20.4%) parking reduction. The proposed store's daily hours of operation are 7:00 A.M.
to 10:00 P.M. The store amenities include an ATM, floral department, deli, bakery, seafood,
fresh meat, and liquor store. The proposed site plan is provided at Figure 1.


Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. has completed a parking reduction analysis to determine
whether a parking reduction is appropriate for the proposed development. The study's
methodology is consistent with the requirements of the Village. Methodology correspondence
detailing the traffic study requirements is included in Appendix A. This report summarizes the
data collection, analysis, results, and conclusions.




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 1             October 2011
                                               Figure 1
                                               Site Plan
                               Winn Dixie Islamorada
© 2011   Islamorada, Village of Islands Village, Florida
                                                                                                    Parking Reduction Study



                                                                    DATA COLLECTION

Parking Demand Data Collection
In order to determine the parking demand for the proposed free-standing grocery store,
parking demand data was collected at the existing 38,099 square-foot Winn Dixie grocery store
in Key Largo, located at 105300 Overseas Highway. Please note that this location is the only
known free-standing grocery store in the Florida Keys Region. Additionally, this comparable
Winn Dixie store serves as the first grocery store for southbound traffic to the Florida Keys from
Florida City.




                                             Existing Winn Dixie Store ­ Key Largo, Florida


The store amenities include an ATM, floral department, deli, bakery, seafood, fresh meat, and
pharmacy. Although, the existing store does not contain a liquor store consistent with the
proposed store, the Village's parking requirements do not differentiate between pharmacy and
liquor store. Based on the Village's code, both land uses require 3.0 parking spaces per 1,000
square-feet of gross floor area. Furthermore, neither site has both pharmacy and liquor store.
It is assumed that these particular amenities are comparable with regards to parking demand.
The Institute of Transportation Engineer's (ITE's), Parking Generation, 3rd Edition provides a


K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 3             October 2011
                                                                                                                  Parking Reduction Study


detailed description of Land Use: 850 Supermarket.                                                  The description is as follows
"Supermarkets are free-standing retail stores selling a complete assortment of food, food
preparation and wrapping materials and household cleaning items. Supermarkets may also
contain the following products and services: ATMs, automobile supplies, bakeries, books and
magazines, dry cleaning, floral arrangements, greeting cards, limited-service banks, photo
centers, pharmacies and video rental areas."


The existing store's daily hours of operation are 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. consistent with the
proposed Islamorada store. Pharmacy hours of operation are Monday through Friday 8:00
A.M. to 8:00 P.M., Saturday from 9:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M., and Sunday from 10:00 A.M. to 5:00
P.M.


Parking demand data was collected at the Key Largo Winn Dixie store on Friday, September 16,
2011, from 3:00 P.M. to 7:00 P.M. and Saturday, September 17, 2011, from 11:00 A.M. to 7:00
P.M. These time periods coincide with the actual peak transaction times which are Friday from
4:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. (average Friday daily customer volume: 1,500) and Saturday from 12:00
P.M. to 6:00 P.M. (average Saturday daily customer volume: 1,800). The parking supply of the
store is 146 spaces. Additionally, the Key Largo store was found to have a bicycle rack with a
capacity of three (3) bicycles. Bicycle parking utilization was collected as part of the study.




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 4                           October 2011
                                                                                                    Parking Reduction Study




                                         Key Largo Winn Dixie Store ­ Existing Bicycle Rack


The number of employees and patrons arriving and departing by bus was also collected during
the data collection time periods as well as the number of employees working at the store
throughout the data collection period. Parking utilization data was collected in 30 minute
increments. The Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) peak season conversion factor
(1.22) was applied to the raw parking demand data to adjust to peak season demand. The
FDOT peak season conversion factor is contained in Appendix B.


The parking demand data is presented in Tables 1 and 2 for Friday, September 16, 2011 and
Saturday, September 17, 2011, respectively. The peak parking demand of 63 parking spaces
(43.4 percent (43.3%) of the parking supply) occurred on Saturday from 11:00 A.M. to 11:30
A.M. The peak bicycle parking demand of four (4) bicycles occurred on Saturday from 12:30
P.M. to 1:00 P.M.                       The peak number of employees (25) working at the store occurred
throughout the day on Saturday. A limited number of employees and store patrons were
observed arriving to the store via transit. Actual parking demand data sheets are provided in
Appendix B. Please note the store manager was contacted during the data collection period




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 5             October 2011
                                                                                                    Parking Reduction Study


and stated that the observed parking demand was typical of peak parking demand on a Friday
and Saturday.




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 6             October 2011
                                                                                                                                  Parking Reduction Study


                                                                        Table 1: Friday, September 16, 2011 Parking Demand Data




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx                   Page - 7                           October 2011
                                                                                                                                 Parking Reduction Study


                                                                     Table 2: Saturday, September 17, 2011 Parking Demand Data




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx                 Page - 8                            October 2011
                                                                                                            Parking Reduction Study


Population Data
Population data for both Key Largo and Islamorada were gathered from the U.S. Census Bureau.
Table 3 provides a summary of the 2009 American Community Survey (ACS) demographic and
housing estimates for Key Largo and Islamorada. Please note that year 2009 data is the latest
available from the U.S. Census Bureau.



                                        Table 3: Year 2009 Municipality Population Information

                   Municipality                                                    Population            Housing Units
Islamorada                                                                               6,437              5,243

Key Largo                                                                                12,106             8,703


Based on the 2009 census data, Islamorada has approximately 53.2 percent (53.2%) of the
population of Key Largo and approximately 60.2 percent (60.2%) of the housing units of Key
Largo. Detailed census information is provided in Appendix C.




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx        Page - 9                October 2011
                                                                                                                      Parking Reduction Study


                                                        PARKING DEMAND ANALYSIS

Utilizing the Key Largo Winn Dixie store parking demand data collected, an analysis was
conducted to estimate the parking demand of the proposed Islamorada Winn Dixie store. The
analysis compared the parking supply to (1) actual comparable store parking demand
(calculated proportionally) and (2) parking demand specified within the Institute of
Transportation Engineer's (ITE's) Parking Generation, 3rd Edition for grocery stores.


Comparable Store Parking Demand
A parking demand ratio was calculated based on the square-footages of the existing Key Largo
location and the proposed Islamorada location. This ratio was applied to the Key Largo site's
peak parking demand to determine the feasibility of a parking reduction for the proposed
Islamorada site. Additionally, a 15.0 percent (15.0%) factor of safety was applied in order to
provide a conservative analysis.                                    Based on the calculated proportional parking demand
methodology the proposed Winn Dixie Islamorada would require 42 parking spaces. Therefore,
it can be concluded that a parking reduction of 20 parking spaces parking reduction is expected
to accommodate the anticipated parking demand of the proposed grocery store. Parking
calculations are summarized in Table 4.



                                              Table 4: Calculated Proportional Parking Demand
                                                                                                     Winn Dixie Key   Proposed Winn
                                                                                                         Largo        Dixie Islamorada
Square-footage                                                                                          38,099             22,237

Observed Maximum Peak Parking Demand                                                                      63                 N/A
Maximum Peak Parking Demand with 115% of Field
                                                                                                          72                 N/A
Measured Parking Demand
Calculated Proportional Parking Demand
                                                                                                          N/A                 42
(including 115% of Field Measured Parking Demand)




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 10                              October 2011
                                                                                                                        Parking Reduction Study


ITE's Parking Generation Parking Demand
An analysis was performed calculating the proposed Winn Dixie Islamorada parking
requirements based on a parking demand ratio for the Key Largo site and the parking demand
equations provided in the ITE's Parking Generation, 3rd Edition. As the observed peak parking
demand occurred on a Saturday, parking generation parking was also calculated based on the
Saturday peak period parking demand. This ratio was then applied to the peak season parking
demand of the Key Largo site to determine the proposed Islamorada site parking demand.
Additionally, a 15.0 percent (15.0%) safety factor was applied in order to provide a conservative
analysis. Based on the calculated proportional parking demand based on the ITE's Parking
Generation, 3rd Edition the proposed Winn Dixie Islamorada would require 42 parking spaces.
Therefore, it can be concluded that a parking reduction of 20 parking spaces parking reduction
is expected to accommodate the anticipated parking demand of the proposed grocery store.
Parking calculations are summarized in Table 5.



                 Table 5: Calculated Parking Demand based on ITE's Parking Generation, 3rd Edition
                                                                                                     Existing Key          Proposed
                                       Characteristics
                                                                                                     Largo Store       Islamorada Store
                                            Store Size                                               38,099 s.f.           22,237s.f.
                      ITE Parking Generation, 3rd Edition
                                                                                                         5.25 spaces per 1,000 s.f.
                            Parking Demand(1) Rate
        ITE Parking Generation, 3rd Edition Parking Demand                                               200                   117

                 115% of Field Measured Parking Demand                                                   72                    N/A
      ITE/Field Measured Parking Demand Ratio (ITE Parking
                                                                                                        2.78                   N/A
        Demand/115% of Field Measured Parking Demand)
             ITE Parking Demand / (ITE/Field Measured Parking Demand Ratio)                                                     42
       (1)
Note: Land Use Code:850 Supermarket, Saturday Peak Period Parking Demand Rate, P = 5.25(X), X = 1,000 s.f. gross floor area




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 11                                October 2011
                                                                                                     Parking Reduction Study


                                                                        CONCLUSIONS

The proposed development is seeking a parking reduction in order to accommodate 10 foot
wide parking spaces on the site to provide improved parking operations/vehicle access. The
current site plan was approved by the Village with varying parking space widths ranging
between 8.5, 9.0, and 9.5 foot wide. Ninety-eight (98) parking spaces are required by the
Village parking code. The increased parking space width will result in a parking reduction of
approximately 20 spaces on the site. This corresponds to a 20.4 percent (20.4%) parking
reduction.


Utilizing the Key Largo Winn Dixie store field measured parking demand data, a parking demand
analysis was conducted to determine the expected parking demand of the proposed Islamorada
Winn Dixie store. The analysis compared the parking supply to (1) actual comparable parking
demand (calculated proportional parking demand) and (2) parking demand specified within the
ITE's Parking Generation, 3rd Edition for grocery stores.


Both analysis methods revealed that the proposed Islamorada Winn Dixie store would require
42 parking spaces. Therefore it can be concluded that a parking reduction of 20 parking spaces
or 20.4 percent (20.4%) could accommodate the anticipated parking demand of the proposed
grocery store. In conclusion, the analysis supports a parking reduction for the proposed
Islamorada Winn Dixie store.




K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Report\Parking Reduction Study 09 19 13.docx   Page - 12             October 2011
       APPENDIX A:
Methodology Correspondence
Memorandum
                                                                                5200 NW 33rd Avenue
                                                                                Suite 109
To:         Kevin Bond                                                          Fort Lauderdale, Florida
            Village of Islamorada                                               33309


From:       John J. McWilliams, P.E.
            Adrian K. Dabkowski, P.E. (LA), PTOE

CC:         John Zegeer, P.E.; Kittelson and Associates, Inc.
            Darryl DePencier; Kittelson and Associates, Inc.

Date:       September 12, 2011

Subject: Proposed Winn Dixie Islamorada (Market at Islamorada)
         Revised Parking Demand Study Methodology

The purpose of this memorandum is to summarize the parking demand study
methodology as discussed at our August 25, 2011, meeting for the proposed
22,237 square-foot Winn Dixie Islamorada grocery store. The proposed
development is located at milemarker 81 Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5),
Islamorada, Florida. The proposed store's hours of operation are 7:00 A.M. to
10:00 P.M. Monday through Sunday. The store amenities include ATM, floral
department, deli, bakery, seafood, fresh meat, and liquor store.

The proposed development is seeking a parking reduction in order to
accommodate 10 foot wide parking spaces on the site to provide for ease of
customer access. The current site plan was approved by the Village with 9.5
foot wide parking spaces. The increased parking space width will result in a
parking reduction of approximately ten (10) to twelve (12) spaces on the site.

The following study parameters were discussed at the August 25, 2011 meeting:

Parking Demand Data Collection
Parking demand data will be collected at the existing 38,099 square-foot Winn
Dixie Key Largo grocery store, located at 105300 Overseas Highway, Key Largo,
Florida 33037. Please note that this location is the only known standalone
regional grocery store in the Florida Keys. The store amenities include an ATM,
floral department, deli, bakery, seafood, fresh meat, and pharmacy. Although,
the existing store does not contain a liquor store consistent with the proposed
store, the Village's Parking requirements do not differentiate between
pharmacy and liquor store (both require 3.0 parking spaces per 1,000 square-
feet of gross floor area) and as neither site has both pharmacy and liquor store,
it is assumed that these land uses are interchangeable with one another. Please


TEL 954 535 5100
FAX 954 739 2247
                                                   Kevin Bond, September 12, 2011, Pg. 2




note the Institute of Transportation Engineer's (ITE's), Parking Generation, 3rd
Edition description of Land Use: 850 Supermarket. The description is as follows
"Supermarkets are free-standing retail stores selling a complete assortment of
food, food preparation and wrapping materials and household cleaning items.
Supermarkets may also contain the following products and services: ATMs,
automobile supplies, bakeries, books and magazines, dry cleaning, floral
arrangements, greeting cards, limited-service banks, photo centers, pharmacies
and video rental areas."

The store hours of operation are Monday through Sunday 7:00 A.M. to 10:00
P.M. The pharmacy hours of operation are Monday through Friday 8:00 A.M. to
8:00 P.M., Saturday from 9:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M., and Sunday from 10:00 A.M.
to 5:00 P.M. The Key Largo store does not have dedicated bicycle parking/racks.
However, bicyclist and bicycle parking will be documented as part of the parking
data collection.

Parking demand data will be collected on a typical Friday from 3:00 P.M. to 7:00
P.M. and Saturday from 11:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. Please note that these times
coincide with the actual peak transaction times which are Friday from 4:00 P.M.
to 6:00 P.M. (average Friday daily customer volume: 1,500) and Saturday from
12:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. (average Saturday daily customer volume: 1,800). The
number of employees and patrons arriving and departing by bus will also be
collected during the data collection time periods. Parking utilization data would
be collect in 30 minute increments. The Florida Department of Transportation
(FDOT) peak season conversion factor will be applied to the raw parking
demand data to adjust to peak season demand.

Parking demand data collection will occur on one (1) Friday and one (1)
Saturday during the following dates:

        Friday, September 16, 2011
        Saturday, September 17, 2011
        Friday, September 23, 2011
        Saturday, September 24, 2011
        Friday, September 30, 2011
        Saturday, October 1, 2011

Winn Dixie Stores, Inc. will be contacted in order to obtain the number of
employees working during each hour of the parking data collection periods at
the existing store. Additionally, population data for Key Largo will be obtained
and compared to Islamorada as well as documented in the study.

Parking Demand Analysis
Utilizing the Key Largo parking demand data collected, a parking demand
analysis will be conducted to determine the utilization of the existing parking
                                                            Kevin Bond, September 12, 2011, Pg. 3




supply and demand. The analysis will compare the parking supply to (1) actual
existing parking demand and (2) parking demand specified within the ITE's
Parking Generation, 3rd Edition for grocery stores.

A ratio will be calculated based on the square-footages of the existing Key Largo
store and the proposed Islamorada store. This ratio will be applied to the Key
Largo site's peak parking demand and determine the feasibility of a parking
reduction for the proposed Islamorada site. An additional analysis will develop
a parking demand ratio for the Key Largo site and proposed Islamorada site
based on the parking demand equations provided in the ITE's Parking
Generation, 3rd Edition. This ratio will then be applied to the peak season
parking demand of the Key Largo site to determine the proposed Islamorada
site parking demand.

Please note that the Winn Dixie Key Largo is the first grocery store for traffic
bound to the Florida Keys from mainland Florida. Additionally, the Winn Dixie
Key Largo primarily serves the Ocean Reef planned development. Any unusual
observations will be documented and additional factors may be applied to the
analysis as a result of these observations.

Documentation
The results of the analysis will be summarized in a report. The report shall
include all necessary supporting documents including parking demand data,
bicyclist data, employees and patrons arriving and departing by bus, employee
hourly data, population data and calculations.

Methodology Concurrence
Please respond with concerns by September 8, 2011, so we will have adequate
time to prepare the analysis. If we don't receive a response by September 8,
2011, we will consider our methodology to be accepted and proceed with the
study.

K:\FTL_TPTO\043504000-Net Five Islamorada\Correspondence\memos\08 31 11 Market at Islamorada -
Parking Accumulation Study Methodology.docx
    APPENDIX B:
Parking Demand Data
FDOT Peak Season Conversion
           Factor
 2010 Peak Season Factor Category Report - Report Type: ALL
Category: 9000 MONROE COUNTYWIDE
                                                MOCF: 0.93
Week          Dates               SF            PSCF
================================================================================
  1    01/01/2010 - 01/02/2010    1.05          1.13
  2    01/03/2010 - 01/09/2010    1.03          1.11
  3    01/10/2010 - 01/16/2010    1.01          1.09
  4    01/17/2010 - 01/23/2010    1.00          1.08
  5    01/24/2010 - 01/30/2010    0.99          1.07
  6    01/31/2010 - 02/06/2010    0.97          1.04
* 7    02/07/2010 - 02/13/2010    0.96          1.03
* 8    02/14/2010 - 02/20/2010    0.95          1.02
* 9    02/21/2010 - 02/27/2010    0.94          1.01
*10    02/28/2010 - 03/06/2010    0.92          0.99
*11    03/07/2010 - 03/13/2010    0.90          0.97
*12    03/14/2010 - 03/20/2010    0.89          0.96
*13    03/21/2010 - 03/27/2010    0.90          0.97
*14    03/28/2010 - 04/03/2010    0.91          0.98
*15    04/04/2010 - 04/10/2010    0.92          0.99
*16    04/11/2010 - 04/17/2010    0.93          1.00
*17    04/18/2010 - 04/24/2010    0.94          1.01
*18    04/25/2010 - 05/01/2010    0.95          1.02
*19    05/02/2010 - 05/08/2010    0.96          1.03
 20    05/09/2010 - 05/15/2010    0.97          1.04
 21    05/16/2010 - 05/22/2010    0.97          1.04
 22    05/23/2010 - 05/29/2010    0.98          1.06
 23    05/30/2010 - 06/05/2010    0.98          1.06
 24    06/06/2010 - 06/12/2010    0.99          1.07
 25    06/13/2010 - 06/19/2010    0.99          1.07
 26    06/20/2010 - 06/26/2010    0.99          1.07
 27    06/27/2010 - 07/03/2010    0.99          1.07
 28    07/04/2010 - 07/10/2010    0.99          1.07
 29    07/11/2010 - 07/17/2010    1.00          1.08
 30    07/18/2010 - 07/24/2010    1.00          1.08
 31    07/25/2010 - 07/31/2010    1.01          1.09
 32    08/01/2010 - 08/07/2010    1.02          1.10
 33    08/08/2010 - 08/14/2010    1.02          1.10
 34    08/15/2010 - 08/21/2010    1.03          1.11
 35    08/22/2010 - 08/28/2010    1.05          1.13
 36    08/29/2010 - 09/04/2010    1.08          1.16
 37    09/05/2010 - 09/11/2010    1.10          1.18
 38    09/12/2010 - 09/18/2010    1.13          1.22
 39    09/19/2010 - 09/25/2010    1.11          1.20
 40    09/26/2010 - 10/02/2010    1.10          1.18
 41    10/03/2010 - 10/09/2010    1.09          1.17
 42    10/10/2010 - 10/16/2010    1.08          1.16
 43    10/17/2010 - 10/23/2010    1.07          1.15
 44    10/24/2010 - 10/30/2010    1.07          1.15
 45    10/31/2010 - 11/06/2010    1.07          1.15
 46    11/07/2010 - 11/13/2010    1.06          1.14
 47    11/14/2010 - 11/20/2010    1.06          1.14
 48    11/21/2010 - 11/27/2010    1.05          1.13
 49    11/28/2010 - 12/04/2010    1.05          1.13
 50    12/05/2010 - 12/11/2010    1.05          1.13
 51    12/12/2010 - 12/18/2010    1.05          1.13
 52    12/19/2010 - 12/25/2010    1.03          1.11
 53    12/26/2010 - 12/31/2010    1.01          1.09

* Peak Season

Page 1 of 1
Raw Parking Demand Data
APPENDIX C:
Census Data
Islamorada, Village of Islands village; Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimate... Page 1 of 3




                        Islamorada, Village of Islands village, Florida
                        ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2005-2009
                        Data Set: 2005-2009 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates
                        Survey: American Community Survey




 NOTE. Although the American Community Survey (ACS) produces population, demographic and housing
 unit estimates, it is the Census Bureau's Population Estimates Program that produces and disseminates the
 official estimates of the population for the nation, states, counties, cities and towns and estimates of housing
 units for states and counties.

 For more information on confidentiality protection, sampling error, nonsampling error, and definitions, see
 Survey Methodology.

  ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates                                  Estimate Margin of Error Percent Margin of Error
  SEX AND AGE
   Total population                                                          6,437              +/-26     6,437        (X)
  Male                                                                       3,510             +/-179    54.5%      +/-2.8
  Female                                                                     2,927             +/-177    45.5%      +/-2.8

  Under 5 years                                                                 87              +/-64     1.4%      +/-1.0
  5 to 9 years                                                                 106              +/-66     1.6%      +/-1.0
  10 to 14 years                                                               388             +/-127     6.0%      +/-2.0
  15 to 19 years                                                               344             +/-125     5.3%      +/-1.9
  20 to 24 years                                                               144              +/-72     2.2%      +/-1.1
  25 to 34 years                                                               364             +/-197     5.7%      +/-3.1
  35 to 44 years                                                               760             +/-174    11.8%      +/-2.7
  45 to 54 years                                                             1,599             +/-287    24.8%      +/-4.5
  55 to 59 years                                                               657             +/-143    10.2%      +/-2.2
  60 to 64 years                                                               566             +/-150     8.8%      +/-2.3
  65 to 74 years                                                               802             +/-164    12.5%      +/-2.5
  75 to 84 years                                                               437             +/-150     6.8%      +/-2.3
  85 years and over                                                            183             +/-100     2.8%      +/-1.6

  Median age (years)                                                          51.1             +/-2.0       (X)       (X)

  18   years and over                                                        5,567             +/-185    86.5%      +/-2.9
  21   years and over                                                        5,492             +/-178    85.3%      +/-2.8
  62   years and over                                                        1,720             +/-281    26.7%      +/-4.4
  65   years and over                                                        1,422             +/-260    22.1%      +/-4.0

   18 years and over                                                         5,567             +/-185     5,567        (X)
  Male                                                                       3,061             +/-212    55.0%      +/-2.8
  Female                                                                     2,506             +/-148    45.0%      +/-2.8

   65 years and over                                                         1,422             +/-260     1,422        (X)
  Male                                                                         801             +/-173    56.3%      +/-7.7
  Female                                                                       621             +/-167    43.7%      +/-7.7

  RACE
   Total population                                                          6,437              +/-26     6,437        (X)
  One race                                                                   6,371              +/-70    99.0%      +/-1.0
  Two or more races                                                             66              +/-65     1.0%      +/-1.0

  One race                                                                   6,371              +/-70    99.0%      +/-1.0
   White                                                                     6,363              +/-70    98.9%      +/-1.0
   Black or African American                                                     0             +/-136     0.0%      +/-0.7
   American Indian and Alaska Native                                             0             +/-136     0.0%      +/-0.7
    Cherokee tribal grouping                                                     0             +/-136     0.0%      +/-0.7
    Chippewa tribal grouping                                                     0             +/-136     0.0%      +/-0.7




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1234132&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
Islamorada, Village of Islands village; Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimate... Page 2 of 3



  ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates                            Estimate Margin of Error Percent Margin of Error
    Navajo tribal grouping                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Sioux tribal grouping                                                 0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
   Asian                                                                  0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Asian Indian                                                          0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Chinese                                                               0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Filipino                                                              0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Japanese                                                              0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Korean                                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Vietnamese                                                            0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Other Asian                                                           0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
   Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander                             0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Native Hawaiian                                                       0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Guamanian or Chamorro                                                 0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Samoan                                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
    Other Pacific Islander                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
   Some other race                                                        8           +/-12   0.1%           +/-0.2
  Two or more races                                                      66           +/-65   1.0%           +/-1.0
   White and Black or African American                                    0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7
   White and American Indian and Alaska Native                           32           +/-49   0.5%           +/-0.8
   White and Asian                                                       22           +/-37   0.3%           +/-0.6
   Black or African American and American Indian and Alaska Native        0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.7

  Race alone or in combination with one or more other races
   Total population                                                       6,437              +/-26     6,437                (X)
  White                                                                   6,429              +/-28    99.9%              +/-0.2
  Black or African American                                                   0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
  American Indian and Alaska Native                                          32              +/-49     0.5%              +/-0.8
  Asian                                                                      22              +/-37     0.3%              +/-0.6
  Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander                                  0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
  Some other race                                                            20              +/-24     0.3%              +/-0.4

  HISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE
   Total population                                                       6,437              +/-26     6,437                (X)
  Hispanic or Latino (of any race)                                          466             +/-169     7.2%              +/-2.6
   Mexican                                                                    7              +/-13     0.1%              +/-0.2
   Puerto Rican                                                              18              +/-32     0.3%              +/-0.5
   Cuban                                                                    356             +/-159     5.5%              +/-2.5
   Other Hispanic or Latino                                                  85              +/-58     1.3%              +/-0.9
  Not Hispanic or Latino                                                  5,971             +/-173    92.8%              +/-2.6
   White alone                                                            5,905             +/-185    91.7%              +/-2.8
   Black or African American alone                                            0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
   American Indian and Alaska Native alone                                    0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
   Asian alone                                                                0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
   Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone                           0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
   Some other race alone                                                      0             +/-136     0.0%              +/-0.7
   Two or more races                                                         66              +/-65     1.0%              +/-1.0
    Two races including Some other race                                      12              +/-19     0.2%              +/-0.3
    Two races excluding Some other race, and Three or more races             54              +/-62     0.8%              +/-1.0

  Total housing units                                                     5,243             +/-316       (X)                (X)

 Source: U.S. Census Bureau, 2005-2009 American Community Survey

 Data are based on a sample and are subject to sampling variability. The degree of uncertainty for an estimate arising from sampling variability is
 represented through the use of a margin of error. The value shown here is the 90 percent margin of error. The margin of error can be interpreted roughly
 as providing a 90 percent probability that the interval defined by the estimate minus the margin of error and the estimate plus the margin of error (the
 lower and upper confidence bounds) contains the true value. In addition to sampling variability, the ACS estimates are subject to nonsampling error (for a
 discussion of nonsampling variability, see Accuracy of the Data). The effect of nonsampling error is not represented in these tables.

 Notes:
 ·For more information on understanding race and Hispanic origin data, please see the Census 2000 Brief entitled, Overview of Race and Hispanic Origin,
 issued March 2001. (pdf format)
 ·The ACS questions on Hispanic origin and race were revised in 2008 to make them consistent with the Census 2010 question wording. Any changes in
 estimates for 2008 and beyond may be due to demographic changes, as well as factors including questionnaire changes, differences in ACS population
 controls, and methodological differences in the population estimates, and therefore should be used with caution. For a summary of questionnaire
 changes see http://www.census.gov/acs/www/methodology/questionnaire_changes/. For more information about changes in the estimates see
 http://www.census.gov/population/www/socdemo/hispanic/reports.html.
 ·While the 2005-2009 American Community Survey (ACS) data generally reflect the November 2008 Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
 definitions of metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas; in certain instances the names, codes, and boundaries of the principal cities shown in ACS
 tables may differ from the OMB definitions due to differences in the effective dates of the geographic entities.
 ·Estimates of urban and rural population, housing units, and characteristics reflect boundaries of urban areas defined based on Census 2000 data.
 Boundaries for urban areas have not been updated since Census 2000. As a result, data for urban and rural areas from the ACS do not necessarily
 reflect the results of ongoing urbanization.




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1234132&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
Islamorada, Village of Islands village; Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimate... Page 3 of 3




 Explanation of Symbols:
 1. An '**' entry in the margin of error column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute a
 standard error and thus the margin of error. A statistical test is not appropriate.
 2. An '-' entry in the estimate column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute an estimate,
 or a ratio of medians cannot be calculated because one or both of the median estimates falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended
 distribution.
 3. An '-' following a median estimate means the median falls in the lowest interval of an open-ended distribution.
 4. An '+' following a median estimate means the median falls in the upper interval of an open-ended distribution.
 5. An '***' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the median falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended distribution. A
 statistical test is not appropriate.
 6. An '*****' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the estimate is controlled. A statistical test for sampling variability is not appropriate.
 7. An 'N' entry in the estimate and margin of error columns indicates that data for this geographic area cannot be displayed because the number of
 sample cases is too small.
 8. An '(X)' means that the estimate is not applicable or not available.




 The letters PDF or symbol  indicate a document is in the Portable Document Format (PDF). To view the file you will
 need the Adobe® Acrobat® Reader, which is available for free from the Adobe web site.




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1234132&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
Key Largo CDP, Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2005-2009                                                    Page 1 of 3




                        Key Largo CDP, Florida
                        ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2005-2009
                        Data Set: 2005-2009 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates
                        Survey: American Community Survey




 NOTE. Although the American Community Survey (ACS) produces population, demographic and housing
 unit estimates, it is the Census Bureau's Population Estimates Program that produces and disseminates the
 official estimates of the population for the nation, states, counties, cities and towns and estimates of housing
 units for states and counties.

 For more information on confidentiality protection, sampling error, nonsampling error, and definitions, see
 Survey Methodology.

  ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates                                  Estimate Margin of Error Percent Margin of Error
  SEX AND AGE
   Total population                                                        12,106              +/-674   12,106         (X)
  Male                                                                      6,404              +/-486   52.9%       +/-2.3
  Female                                                                    5,702              +/-396   47.1%       +/-2.3

  Under 5 years                                                                584             +/-167     4.8%      +/-1.3
  5 to 9 years                                                                 493             +/-182     4.1%      +/-1.4
  10 to 14 years                                                               569             +/-200     4.7%      +/-1.6
  15 to 19 years                                                               545             +/-191     4.5%      +/-1.6
  20 to 24 years                                                               716             +/-211     5.9%      +/-1.6
  25 to 34 years                                                             1,479             +/-329    12.2%      +/-2.4
  35 to 44 years                                                             1,736             +/-273    14.3%      +/-2.2
  45 to 54 years                                                             2,101             +/-303    17.4%      +/-2.4
  55 to 59 years                                                             1,071             +/-177     8.8%      +/-1.6
  60 to 64 years                                                               868             +/-160     7.2%      +/-1.3
  65 to 74 years                                                             1,078             +/-179     8.9%      +/-1.5
  75 to 84 years                                                               682             +/-175     5.6%      +/-1.3
  85 years and over                                                            184              +/-85     1.5%      +/-0.7

  Median age (years)                                                          44.6             +/-2.2       (X)       (X)

  18   years and over                                                      10,088              +/-567    83.3%      +/-1.9
  21   years and over                                                       9,730              +/-566    80.4%      +/-2.4
  62   years and over                                                       2,449              +/-292    20.2%      +/-2.2
  65   years and over                                                       1,944              +/-285    16.1%      +/-2.2

   18 years and over                                                       10,088              +/-567   10,088         (X)
  Male                                                                      5,531              +/-429   54.8%       +/-2.2
  Female                                                                    4,557              +/-297   45.2%       +/-2.2

   65 years and over                                                         1,944             +/-285     1,944        (X)
  Male                                                                       1,132             +/-190    58.2%      +/-4.8
  Female                                                                       812             +/-150    41.8%      +/-4.8

  RACE
   Total population                                                        12,106              +/-674   12,106         (X)
  One race                                                                 12,079              +/-678   99.8%       +/-0.3
  Two or more races                                                            27               +/-38    0.2%       +/-0.3

  One race                                                                 12,079              +/-678    99.8%      +/-0.3
   White                                                                   11,120              +/-717    91.9%      +/-3.3
   Black or African American                                                  249              +/-218     2.1%      +/-1.8
   American Indian and Alaska Native                                          107              +/-102     0.9%      +/-0.8
    Cherokee tribal grouping                                                   16               +/-30     0.1%      +/-0.3
    Chippewa tribal grouping                                                    0              +/-136     0.0%      +/-0.3




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1236375&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
Key Largo CDP, Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2005-2009                                                                  Page 2 of 3



  ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates                            Estimate Margin of Error Percent Margin of Error
    Navajo tribal grouping                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Sioux tribal grouping                                                 0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
   Asian                                                                311          +/-260   2.6%           +/-2.1
    Asian Indian                                                          0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Chinese                                                               0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Filipino                                                             20           +/-34   0.2%           +/-0.3
    Japanese                                                             13           +/-21   0.1%           +/-0.2
    Korean                                                              212          +/-259   1.8%           +/-2.1
    Vietnamese                                                            0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Other Asian                                                          66           +/-95   0.5%           +/-0.8
   Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander                             0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Native Hawaiian                                                       0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Guamanian or Chamorro                                                 0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Samoan                                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
    Other Pacific Islander                                                0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
   Some other race                                                      292          +/-189   2.4%           +/-1.6
  Two or more races                                                      27           +/-38   0.2%           +/-0.3
   White and Black or African American                                   20           +/-34   0.2%           +/-0.3
   White and American Indian and Alaska Native                            7           +/-13   0.1%           +/-0.1
   White and Asian                                                        0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3
   Black or African American and American Indian and Alaska Native        0          +/-136   0.0%           +/-0.3

  Race alone or in combination with one or more other races
   Total population                                                      12,106             +/-674   12,106                 (X)
  White                                                                  11,147             +/-713   92.1%               +/-3.2
  Black or African American                                                 269             +/-231    2.2%               +/-1.9
  American Indian and Alaska Native                                         114             +/-103    0.9%               +/-0.8
  Asian                                                                     311             +/-260    2.6%               +/-2.1
  Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander                                  0             +/-136    0.0%               +/-0.3
  Some other race                                                           292             +/-189    2.4%               +/-1.6

  HISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE
   Total population                                                      12,106             +/-674   12,106                 (X)
  Hispanic or Latino (of any race)                                        2,885             +/-477   23.8%               +/-3.6
   Mexican                                                                  380             +/-201    3.1%               +/-1.6
   Puerto Rican                                                             136              +/-88    1.1%               +/-0.7
   Cuban                                                                  1,854             +/-396   15.3%               +/-3.2
   Other Hispanic or Latino                                                 515             +/-276    4.3%               +/-2.2
  Not Hispanic or Latino                                                  9,221             +/-647   76.2%               +/-3.6
   White alone                                                            8,607             +/-621   71.1%               +/-3.8
   Black or African American alone                                          176             +/-158    1.5%               +/-1.3
   American Indian and Alaska Native alone                                  107             +/-102    0.9%               +/-0.8
   Asian alone                                                              311             +/-260    2.6%               +/-2.1
   Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone                           0             +/-136    0.0%               +/-0.3
   Some other race alone                                                      0             +/-136    0.0%               +/-0.3
   Two or more races                                                         20              +/-34    0.2%               +/-0.3
    Two races including Some other race                                       0             +/-136    0.0%               +/-0.3
    Two races excluding Some other race, and Three or more races             20              +/-34    0.2%               +/-0.3

  Total housing units                                                     8,703             +/-237       (X)                (X)

 Source: U.S. Census Bureau, 2005-2009 American Community Survey

 Data are based on a sample and are subject to sampling variability. The degree of uncertainty for an estimate arising from sampling variability is
 represented through the use of a margin of error. The value shown here is the 90 percent margin of error. The margin of error can be interpreted roughly
 as providing a 90 percent probability that the interval defined by the estimate minus the margin of error and the estimate plus the margin of error (the
 lower and upper confidence bounds) contains the true value. In addition to sampling variability, the ACS estimates are subject to nonsampling error (for a
 discussion of nonsampling variability, see Accuracy of the Data). The effect of nonsampling error is not represented in these tables.

 Notes:
 ·For more information on understanding race and Hispanic origin data, please see the Census 2000 Brief entitled, Overview of Race and Hispanic Origin,
 issued March 2001. (pdf format)
 ·The ACS questions on Hispanic origin and race were revised in 2008 to make them consistent with the Census 2010 question wording. Any changes in
 estimates for 2008 and beyond may be due to demographic changes, as well as factors including questionnaire changes, differences in ACS population
 controls, and methodological differences in the population estimates, and therefore should be used with caution. For a summary of questionnaire
 changes see http://www.census.gov/acs/www/methodology/questionnaire_changes/. For more information about changes in the estimates see
 http://www.census.gov/population/www/socdemo/hispanic/reports.html.
 ·While the 2005-2009 American Community Survey (ACS) data generally reflect the November 2008 Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
 definitions of metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas; in certain instances the names, codes, and boundaries of the principal cities shown in ACS
 tables may differ from the OMB definitions due to differences in the effective dates of the geographic entities.
 ·Estimates of urban and rural population, housing units, and characteristics reflect boundaries of urban areas defined based on Census 2000 data.
 Boundaries for urban areas have not been updated since Census 2000. As a result, data for urban and rural areas from the ACS do not necessarily
 reflect the results of ongoing urbanization.




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1236375&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
Key Largo CDP, Florida - ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2005-2009                                                                   Page 3 of 3




 Explanation of Symbols:
 1. An '**' entry in the margin of error column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute a
 standard error and thus the margin of error. A statistical test is not appropriate.
 2. An '-' entry in the estimate column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute an estimate,
 or a ratio of medians cannot be calculated because one or both of the median estimates falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended
 distribution.
 3. An '-' following a median estimate means the median falls in the lowest interval of an open-ended distribution.
 4. An '+' following a median estimate means the median falls in the upper interval of an open-ended distribution.
 5. An '***' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the median falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended distribution. A
 statistical test is not appropriate.
 6. An '*****' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the estimate is controlled. A statistical test for sampling variability is not appropriate.
 7. An 'N' entry in the estimate and margin of error columns indicates that data for this geographic area cannot be displayed because the number of
 sample cases is too small.
 8. An '(X)' means that the estimate is not applicable or not available.




 The letters PDF or symbol  indicate a document is in the Portable Document Format (PDF). To view the file you will
 need the Adobe® Acrobat® Reader, which is available for free from the Adobe web site.




http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-geo_id=16000US1236375&-qr_n... 10/6/2011
                                                                           Attachment E




Memorandum                                                                   §
                                                                             5200 NW 33rd Avenue
                                                                             Suite 109
To:         Cheryl Cioffari                                                  Fort Lauderdale, Florida
            Islamorada, Village of Islands                                   33309


From:       Adrian K. Dabkowski, P.E. (LA), PTOE
            John J. McWilliams, P.E.

CC:         Owen Ewing, Win-Development, LLC

Date:       January 8, 2014

Subject: Winn Dixie Parking Reduction Study
         Response to Peer Review Comments

We have received comments provided by Kittelson & Associates, Inc. for the
parking reduction study related to the proposed Winn Dixie project located at
81001 Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5) on January 3, 2014. We offer the
following responses:

1. The Parking Reduction Study and the most recent Site Plan provided to the
   Village should be consistent with each other. The Parking Reduction Study
   presents the concept of 10 shared parking spaces located within the
   boundaries of the adjacent property immediately to the north. The site
   plan does not show the shared parking spaces, therefore, it is not
   consistent with the Parking Reduction Study. The Parking Study Reduction
   was conducted assuming a free-standing grocery store and the revised site
   plan presents a combined free-standing grocery and liquor store.

      Response: Please refer to comment response #4. A shared parking study
      was prepared for the site in response to comment #4.

2. A written cross-access and shared-parking agreement signed by both
   property owners must be submitted by the applicant to satisfy the Village
   parking requirements prior to the issuance of any building permits. The
   number of parking spaces required by the Village parking code (103) and
   the number of parking spaces provided in the revised site plan (81)
   do not match those numbers presented in the Study.

      Response: Noted. The applicant will provide the cross-access and shared-
      parking agreements to the City once the agreements have been executed.




§
TEL 954 535 5100
                                                      Cheryl Cioffari, January 8, 2014, Page 2




3. The following calculations for required parking spaces, parking spaces
   reduction, and required bicycle spaces should be included in the body
   of the report. According to the Village Code of Ordinances Section 30-852
   the parking calculations will be as follow:

       Grocery store sq. ft. = 20,799        liquor store = 1,438 sq. ft.

   Rate for grocery stores = 5 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
   Rate for liquor stores = 3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.

       Required number of parking spaces = (20.799 x 5) + (1.438 x 3) =
       108.309 = 109

   Section 30-852-C-1(a): "Racks for parking bicycles may be substituted for
   up to five percent of vehicular parking spaces required pursuant to section
   30-852."

       108.309 required spaces ­ 5% bicycle reduction = (108.309 x 0.95) =
       102.89 = 103 parking spaces required

   Section 30-852-C-1(a): "For every three bicycle parking spaces installed as
   a bicycle rack in accordance with the subsection, the number of required
   vehicular parking spaces shall be reduced by one space, up to a maximum
   of ten vehicular parking spaces."

       Reduced vehicular parking spaces = (109 ­ 103) x 3 = 6 x 3 = 18 bicycle
       spaces required

   Response: The required parking calculations were incorporated into the
   shared parking analysis prepared as part of response to comment #4.

4. The applicant has decided to use the shared parking in combination
   with the bicycle parking credit to meet with the required number of
   parking spaces determined by the square footage of the proposed
   building. Nonetheless, the report does not document the calculations
   concerning the shared parking as described in Section 30-852 (d) of
   the Village's Code of Ordinance.

   Response: A shared parking analysis was prepared and included in
   Attachment A.

5. Please update page 11 of the report. The development is not seeking
   for a parking reduction, assuming that the calculations for the shared
   parking are provided in the report. According to the Code of Ordinances,
   the parking spaces requirements are being met through a combination of
                                                                                        Cheryl Cioffari, January 8, 2014, Page 3




      shared parking and bicycle parking credit. Therefore, no parking variance
      should be requested on behalf of the applicant.

      Response: Please refer to response to comment #4.

6. As mentioned in previous memoranda, the justification method for the
   reduction of the parking demand from the ITE Parking Generation is
   the same as the reduction proposed from the proportionally
   comparison with the Key Largo Winn Dixie. The Parking Reduction Study
   should not request a parking reduction since all requirements would be
   met once the applicant provides the shared parking calculations. The
   parking demand from the ITE Parking Generation book was based on 14
   survey sites whereas the Study considers a single site (Key Largo Winn
   Dixie).

      Response: Please refer to response to comment #4.

We trust that these responses adequately address the comments provided.
Please contact us if you have any questions.
K:\FTL_TPTO\043583000-The Market at Islamorada - Win Development\Correspondence\memo\01 06 14 Cioffari - Response to Kittelson Parking
Reduction Study Comments Memo.docx
Attachment A
Memorandum                                                                           §
                                                                                     5200 NW 33rd Avenue
                                                                                     Suite 109
To:          Cheryl Cioffari                                                         Fort Lauderdale, Florida
             City of Islamorada                                                      33309


From:        Adrian K. Dabkowski, P.E. (LA), PTOE
             John J. McWilliams, P.E.

Date:        January 8, 2014

Subject: Winn-Dixie Islamorada Shared Parking Study
         Islamorada, Florida

The intent of this memorandum is determine the minimum shared parking
requirements for the Winn-Dixie grocery store development based upon the
criteria established within the Village of Islamorada Land Development Code
(Section 30-852: Off-Street Parking). The site proposed for development is
located at 81001 Overseas Highway, within the Village of Islamorada and
consists of a 22,237 square-foot Winn-Dixie development that includes a
20,799 square-foot grocery store and a 1,438 square-foot liquor store.

Required Parking Spaces

Based upon the land uses and development intensity associated with the
project, the criteria outlined within the Village of Islamorada Land
Development Code Section 30-852 specifies that 103 parking stalls are
required to provide adequate parking accommodations. Table 1 illustrates
the derivation of this value with the applied bicycle reduction factor of 5
percent (5%) specified in Section 30-852-C-1(a). As a bicycle parking reduction
is applied, a total of 18 bicycle parking spaces are required. Please note that
21 bicycle parking spaces and 93 vehicle parking spaces are provided on the
January 7, 2014 site plan.

            Table 1 ­ Village of Islamorada Parking Code Requirements
                                  City of Coral Springs    Proposed       Required
           Land Use
                                      Requirement           Intensity      Parking
         Grocery Store            5 spaces per 1,000 sf     20,799 sf        104
       Other/Liquor Store         3 spaces per 1,000 sf      1,438 sf         4
                                             Subtotal Required Parking       108
    Bicycle Parking Reduction (5 Percent of Subtotal Required Parking)        -5
                                                 Total Required Parking      103



n
TEL 954 535 5100
                                                      Cheryl Cioffari, January 8, 2014, Page 2




Shared Parking Methodology

The Village of Islamorada has developed a shared use parking methodology.
The rationalization of this methodology is to identify primary independent
variables affecting parking demand, identify the relative effects and
universality of those variables and develop a standard methodology for
analyzing shared parking.

Shared parking is defined as a parking space that can be used to serve two (2)
or more individual land uses without conflict or encroachment on a single
parcel or adjacent parcels. The opportunity to implement shared parking is
generated by the following:

   ·   Variations in the peak accumulation of parked vehicles as the result of
       different activity patterns of adjacent or nearby land uses (by hour, by
       day, by season).
   ·   Relationships among land use activities that result in peoples'
       attraction to two or more land uses on a single vehicular trip to a given
       area or development.

Village of Islamorada Land Development Code provides parking ratios for
major classifications of land uses and accounts for the impact of
shared/combined parking which can be significantly less than the sum of
individual land uses. Peak parking accumulations for individual land uses in a
mixed-land use development can occur at different times during the day. This
is also true for weekdays versus weekends and seasonal variations.

Explained further, when the hourly percent requirement equals 100 percent,
all of the Village's specified parking spaces, for that particular land use, are
required to be available.

The Village of Islamorada has developed hourly parking demand distributions
for a consortium of land uses. These distributions are presented in a table
format and provide a percent of the required parking ratio on an hourly basis
throughout the course of a day, which is denoted as hourly percent required.

For this shared parking analysis, the adjacent property to the north of the
proposed Winn-Dixie development was used. This property consists of a
restaurant/lounge with 48 parking spaces. A site plan for the adjacent
property is contained in Attachment A. A total of 141 parking spaces are
provided between the Winn-Dixie development and the adjacent
restaurant/lounge. Each individual land use parking demand, Winn-Dixie
development and the adjacent restaurant/lounge is summated to estimate
the overall shared parking demand for the project. Attachment B contains the
specific calculations for this project.
                                                                  Cheryl Cioffari, January 8, 2014, Page 3




Shared Use Parking Analysis Results
Based on the Village of Islamorada Land Development Code shared parking
requirements, the weekday shared use parking requirement is 141 spaces
which occurs between 6:00 PM and 12:00 AM. The weekend shared use
parking requirement is also 141 spaces which occurs between 9:00 AM and
4:00 PM. Attachment B provides summaries for weekday and weekend
shared parking demand. The shared parking demand of 141 parking spaces
can be accommodated on both parcels therefore, satisfying the minimum
parking requirement per the Village's shared parking methodology.

Conclusion

The applicant is proposing to develop a 22,237 square-foot Winn-Dixie
development which includes a 20,799 square-foot grocery store and a 1,438
square-foot liquor store.
Based on the Village of Islamorada Land Development Code, evaluating The
proposed Winn-Dixie site would require 103 parking spaces while 93 parking
spaces are provided. However, evaluating the site along with the adjacent
property using the parking demand distributions and characteristics contained
within the Village's shared parking code, the peak parking demand of 141
parking spaces can be accommodated on both parcels therefore, satisfying
the minimum parking requirement per the Village's shared parking
methodology.
Please contact us should you have any questions regarding this analysis.
K:\FTL_TPTO\043561000 - Cornerstone\correspondence\10 21 13 shared parking memo.docx
Attachment A
Attachment B
                                                                                      TABLE 1
                                                                               WINN DIXIE ISLAMORADA
                                                                              SHARED PARKING ANALYSIS




                                                         Retail                                       Restaurant
                                                93 spaces provided                              48 spaces provided                           Total
                                                                                                                                           Required     Total Provided   Parking
                                            Required             Village of                  Existing            Village of                 Shared         Parking       Surplus
                                             Parking            Islamorada                   Parking            Islamorada                  Parking
          No. of spaces                         103                  Rate                     48                     Rate
                                                                                           Weekday
           Time of Day
        Midnight - 6 a.m.                         5                   5%                       5                     10%                        10           141          131
         9 a.m. - 4 p.m.                         62                  60%                      19                     40%                        81           141          60
        6 p.m. - Midnight                        93                  90%                      48                    100%                       141           141           0
                                                                                           Weekend
           Time of Day
        Midnight - 6 a.m.                        5                   5%                           5                  10%                        10           141          131
         9 a.m. - 4 p.m.                        103                 100%                         38                  80%                       141           141           0
        6 p.m. - Midnight                       72                  70%                          48                 100%                       120           141          21



k:\ftl_tpto\043583000-the market at islamorada - win development\calcs\shared parking\[shared parking analysis 01 07 14 (2).xlsx]table 1 (wkdy-wkend)
                                                                            Attachment F




Memorandum                                                                        §
                                                                                  5200 NW 33rd Avenue
                                                                                  Suite 109
To:         Cheryl Cioffari                                                       Fort Lauderdale, Florida
            Islamorada, Village of Islands                                        33309


From:       Adrian K. Dabkowski, P.E. (LA), PTOE
            John J. McWilliams, P.E.

CC:         Owen Ewing, Win-Development, LLC

Date:       January 9, 2014

Subject: Winn Dixie Site Internal Circulation Comments
         Response to Peer Review Comments

We have received comments provided by Kittelson & Associates, Inc. on the
parking reduction study related to the proposed Winn Dixie project located at
81001 Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5) on November 22, 2013. We offer the
following responses:

1. There are 93 parking spaces being provided on the subject site. Please
   update the parking numbering accordingly to reflect 93 spaces, and not
   103 spaces.

      Response: The numbers were revised accordingly.

2. The main drive aisle of the parking lot should be clear of parking spaces
   (parking spaces 88-90 and 83-87) so that site circulation is not impeded by
   parking maneuvers. Vehicles entering the site will have to stop if a parking
   maneuver is taking place in these spaces, allowing the possibility of traffic
   build-up as vehicles are trying to access the site.

      Response: The minimum FDOT required throat depth is 30 feet. Please note
      that approximately 36 feet is provided. Furthermore, the drive aisle in
      question was widened to 28'-2" to better accommodate site circulation.
      Therefore, the parking spaces will not need to be removed.

3. Parking space #44 presents visibility and accessibility issues. If landscaping
   is provided immediately north of this parking space, it may obstruct the
   driver's sight. If a vehicle is entering the site and plans to access space #44,
   there is limited space to access the parking space and may encourage
   drivers to perform atypical parking maneuvers. This may represent a
   potential conflict with the vehicular traffic trying to access the site. Also,


§
TEL 954 535 5100
                                                    Cheryl Cioffari, January 9, 2014, Page 2




   its proximity to the pedestrian walkway leading to the store's main
   entrance may represent severe pedestrian conflicts. It is recommended
   that parking spaces #44 and #45 be relocated to reduce or minimize
   any possible conflict in regards to visibility, accessibility, and pedestrians
   conflicts.

   Response: The minimum FDOT required throat depth is 30 feet. Please note
   that approximately 36 feet is provided. Therefore, the parking spaces do not
   need to be removed.

4. Vehicles parked in spaces #20-22 do not have sufficient departing
   space to travel westbound toward Overseas Highway (US 1/SR 5).

   Response: A maneuverability analysis was provided for the parking spaces
   in question. Vehicle will be about to maneuver out of the mentioned parking
   spaces utilizing the turnaround area. Maneuverability plots are contained in
   Attachment A.

5. Please show on the site plan the 10 shared parking spaces located
   on the adjacent property to the north. Figure 1 of the Parking
   Reduction Study (updated in December 2013) shows the location of
   these spaces. The vehicles parked in these 10 shared parking spaces have
   to be able to circulate on the adjacent site, formerly known as the
   Iguana Club, in a counterclockwise fashion and exit safely from the
   northern site driveway. Please provide written assurance that the
   desired vehicular circulation for these spaces will be maintained on the
   Iguana Club site to exit through the property's northern driveway. The
   parking demand from the ITE Parking Generation book was based on 14
   survey sites whereas the Study considers a single site (Key Largo Winn
   Dixie).

   Response: Requested site plan is provided as Attachment B. The applicant
   will provide the cross-access and shared-parking agreements to the City
   once the agreements have been executed.

6. A written agreement for the cross-access and shared parking
   agreement should be submitted to the Village with both property
   owners' signature. The applicant will make sure the level of circulation of
   the 10 shared parking spaces is maintained at all times and this
   responsibility should be included as part of the shared parking agreement.
   The ITE calculated parking demand is 117 spaces. The Village requires the
   development to provide 103 parking spaces. The site plan dated
   September 19, 2013 shows 81 spaces.

   Response: The applicant will provide the cross-access and shared-parking
   agreements to the City once the agreements have been executed.
                                                       Cheryl Cioffari, January 9, 2014, Page 3




7. It was previously proposed by the applicant to designate the 13
   parking spaces on the northern property line as employee parking as part
   of the truck maneuver conflict. If this mitigation is still being considered,
   please specify which parking spaces will be designated as employee
   parking only on the site plan.

    Response: The 13 spaces are hatch and noted on the Site Plan.

8. Truck ingress remains problematic for the trucks traveling southbound and
   making a left into the site driveway. It appears that the WB-65 trucks will
   cause the cab of the truck to go over the outbound left turn lane creating a
   conflict with the vehicular traffic trying to exit the site and make a left on
   US 1 to go southbound.

    Response: Please note that the site plan was approved for 38 feet, a wider
    (45 foot) is proposed (subject to FDOT approval) to accommodate
    intermediate semitrailer trucks (WB-50) and larger interstate semitrailer
    trucks (WB-65). Additionally, typical deliveries occur outside of the peak
    hours. The peak hours of operation for a grocery store are weekdays 12:00
    P.M. to 2:00 P.M., 4:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. and weekends from 11:00 A.M. to
    2:00 P.M. If needed, a flagman can be provided during peak hours to
    alleviate concerns with the conflicts between parked vehicles and the
    maneuvering truck


9. There is limited space available on the western drive isle for trucks to
   maneuver in and out of the site. The applicant should consider increasing
   the drive isle minimum width (currently shown as 22 feet) by reducing
   the parking caps where possible while still meeting the parking lot
   landscaping requirements.

    Response: The western drive aisle is limited by the 9' minimum landscape
    cap which is shown as 9.2'. The applicant has exhausted all possibilities that
    would provide a significant increase to this aisle. This aisle is limited to only
    one way truck traffic and the 22' provides an adequate maneuvering
    pathway, please refer to Attachment C.

10. Egress maneuvers for trucks headed southbound and northbound on
    Overseas Highway (US1/SR5) have not been shown. In a previous letter of
    response to KAI's comments, a widening of the adjacent site driveway
    was proposed. If this mitigation is still being considered for the
    approval of this development, please include the proposed changes on the
    site plan.
                                                                                        Cheryl Cioffari, January 9, 2014, Page 4




      Response: Maneuverability plots for trucks egressing the site are provided in
      Attachment D.

11. The applicant must obtain written FDOT approval of the following
    road modifications along Overseas Highway (US1/SR5) before any
    building permit is issued:

      a. Northbound and southbound bus pullouts.
      b. Dedicated one-way southbound left-turn lane, located just north
      of the site driveway.
      c.    Pedestrian-crossing refuge area, located just south of the site
      driveway.

      Response: Noted.

12. The applicant is required to reconstruct the Overseas Highway
    (US1/SR5) shared bike and pedestrian path along site's frontage at his
    expense.

      Response: Noted.

13. Currently, the adjacent parcel immediately to the north is vacant.
    Since there is no proposed use at the moment, the previous land-use
    with the highest parking requirements should be considered for the
    shared parking calculations, unless a different land-use is being proposed.

      Response: Please refer to the shared parking analysis. The existing parking
      is a nonconforming use which was lawful before the current Village
      regulations. The applicant will provide an affidavit as a condition of an
      approval that the facility will be brought into full compliance before any
      Certificate of Use/Occupancy shall be issued for the property.

We trust that these responses adequately address the comments provided.
Please contact us if you have any questions.

K:\FTL_TPTO\043583000-The Market at Islamorada - Win Development\Correspondence\memo\01 09 14 Cioffari - Response to Kittelson Site
Internal Circulation Comments Memo.docx
Attachment A
                                                                         JACENT LAND USE:

                                                                         DJACENT ZONI NG DIST
                                                                            HIGHWAY COMMER
                                                                                           COMMERCIAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADJACENT Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADJACE
                                                                                             RICT (HC)
                                                                                              CIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                TYPICAL 9.5' X 18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                        REQUIRED CONTINUOUS PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY                  TYPICAL 9.75' X 18'

    NOT PART OF THIS PLAN
                                                                                                               31                                                                       FROM SIDEWALK TO STORE ENTRANCE                          PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRIVE AISLE


3
            GALLERIA                                                                                           29
                                                        8'-6'' x 18'
                                                        TYP PARKING SP's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66       WB-65 TRUCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANEUVERING PATH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHARED PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY                                   EXIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIQUOR                                                                                   NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEE SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 BIKE WAVE RACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (TYP.) 3 TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STORE                                                          TRANSFORMER               WITH ADJACENT LAND OWNER AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                    21 BIKE PARKING                                            1,438 S.F.                                                                              SP-1.01b SHARED PARKING PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOADING AREA
                                                 END OF 8FT HIGH BUFFER
                                                 WALL TO TERMINATE INTO
                                                 EXIST RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GEN SET 500 KW
                                                                                                               22                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUPERMARKET




                                                                                                                                                             A AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TENANT                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADDRESS:




                                                                                                                                                    HTO 201
                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                           1 (US
                                                                                                                                                                )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOADING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESCRIPTION:
                                                 8FT HIGH BUFFER
                                                 WALL STEPPED TO                                                                                                                                              20,799 S.F.
                                                 ALIGN W/ CONTOURS
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMPACTOR
             LANDSCAPING NOTE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL 9.25' X 18'
                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROOM 208 V 3 Ø                                 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS
             LANDSCAPING ALONG THE SOUTHWEST
             PROPERTY LINE SHALL BE REVIEWED AND
                                                                                                                                            (US)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COOLER/FREEZER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATION                                       NOTE:




                                                     ADJACENT ZONING
                                                                                                                                                       11




                                                     (SR)
                                                                                                                                                   O 20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (INCLUDED IN SF)
                                                                                                                                                    P          S HT
                                                                                                                                                                      AA

             APPROVED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PEDESTRIAN ACCESS SHALL BE DEVELOPED




                                                        ADJACENT LAND USE


                                                                               ZONED SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENCLOSED                                                                      ON THIS PROPERTY WITH THE CROSS ACCESS




                                                          SETT
                                                                                                                    TURNAROUND                                                                                                                                                              LOADING DOCK                                          NW




                                                            RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                       AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AGREEMENT. ACCESS SHALL OCCUR WITH




                                                               LER RESI DENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                                                                                                                                                                               FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.




                                                                                                                    AASHTO 2011 (US)
             BUFFER WALL NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SW                            NE




                                                                        DIST
                                                                                                                        21                                      19




                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                            RICT
                                                                             :
             BUFFER WALL CONSTRUCTION INCLUDING
             EXCAVATION, FILL, FOUNDATIONS WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SE
             CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO BUILDING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TERMINATE BUFFER WALL
             CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2'' FROM PROPERTY LINE
                                              8FT HIGH
                                              BUFFER WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8FT HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               74.27' D.
                                                                                                                                           Y BUFFER                                                                                                                                                                          BUFFER WALL
                                                                                                         EXISTING HIGHWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E. O. P.

                                              8FT HIGH BUFFER WALL
                                              STEPPED DOWN TO ALIGN
                                              W/ TOP OF ADJACENT FENCE

5                           E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST ASPHALT DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO BE REMOVED & SODDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OLD                   STATE                                             ROAD                      4A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND LANDSCAPED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ZONED RE                                                                                         E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZONED RE
                                                           E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)                                                                                                                                ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RESIDENTIAL ESTATE                                                                                                                                           RESIDENTIAL ESTATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL



                                       ZONED SR
                             ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT
                             (SR) SETTLER RESIDENTIAL
                                ADJACENT LAND USE:
                                    RESIDENTIAL




       A                                     B                                                                                                                                  C                                                                   D                                                                                        E                                                                   F
    NOT PART OF THIS PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                             DRIVE AISLE


3           GALLERIA                                                                          29
                                                        8'-6'' x 18'
                                                        TYP PARKING SP's
                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66       WB-65 TRUCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MANEUVERING PATH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENTRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHARED PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                       ENTRY                                   EXIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIQUOR                                                                                    NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                           7 BIKE WAVE RACK
                                                                                                                                                                                           (TYP.) 3 TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STORE                                                              TRANSFORMER            WITH ADJACENT LAND OWNER AND
                                                                                                                                                                                           21 BIKE PARKING                                        1,438 S.F.                                                                               SP-1.01b SHARED PARKING PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOADING AREA
                                                 END OF 8FT HIGH BUFFER
                                                 WALL TO TERMINATE INTO
                                                 EXIST RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GEN SET 500 KW
                                                                                              22                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                          SUPERMARKET
                                                                                                                                                                                             TENANT                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOADING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION:
                                                 8FT HIGH BUFFER
                                                 WALL STEPPED TO                                                                                                                                     20,799 S.F.




                                                                                                                                              AAS HTO P
                                                 ALIGN W/ CONTOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMPACTOR




                                                                                                                                                      2011
4
             LANDSCAPING NOTE




                                                                                                                                                           (US)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                               TYPICAL 9.25' X 18'
                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROOM 208 V 3 Ø                              PEDESTRIAN ACCESS
             LANDSCAPING ALONG THE SOUTHWEST
             PROPERTY LINE SHALL BE REVIEWED AND
                                                                                                   (US)
                                                                                                          2011
                                                                                                                 AAS HTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COOLER/FREEZER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOCATION                                    NOTE:


                                                     ADJACENT ZONING
                                                     (SR) SETTLER RESI
                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (INCLUDED IN SF)                            PEDESTRIAN ACCESS SHALL BE DEVELOPED
             APPROVED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.


                                                        ADJACENT LAND USE



                                                                             ZONED SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENCLOSED                                                                   ON THIS PROPERTY WITH THE CROSS ACCESS
                                                            RESIDENTIAL                            TURNAROUND                                                                                                                                                                      LOADING DOCK                                       NW
                                                                                                      AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AGREEMENT. ACCESS SHALL OCCUR WITH
                                                                                                                                                                  18                                                                                                                                                                                            FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.




                                                                                                                       AASHTO 2011 (US)
             BUFFER WALL NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SW                         NE
                                                                       DENTIAL
                                                                       DISTRICT

                                                                                                      21                                            19




                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                           :




             BUFFER WALL CONSTRUCTION INCLUDING
             EXCAVATION, FILL, FOUNDATIONS WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SE
             CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO BUILDING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TERMINATE BUFFER WALL
             CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2'' FROM PROPERTY LINE
                                              8FT HIGH
                                              BUFFER WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8FT HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   74.27' D.
                                                                                                        Y BUFFER                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUFFER WALL
                                                                                        EXISTING HIGHWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E. O. P.

                                              8FT HIGH BUFFER WALL
                                              STEPPED DOWN TO ALIGN
                                              W/ TOP OF ADJACENT FENCE

5                           E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST ASPHALT DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE REMOVED & SODDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OLD                STATE                                                ROAD                   4A
                                                                                                                                                                                                              AND LANDSCAPED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZONED RE                                                                                          E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ZONED RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)
                                                           E. O. P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RESIDENTIAL ESTATE                                                                                                                                          RESIDENTIAL ESTATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL



                                       ZONED SR
                             ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT
                             (SR) SETTLER RESIDENTIAL
                                ADJACENT LAND USE:
                                    RESIDENTIAL




       A                                     B                                                                                                                         C                                                                 D                                                                                        E                                                                  F                                    G
    NOT PART OF THIS PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                      DRIVE AISLE


3           GALLERIA                                                                          29
                                                        8'-6'' x 18'
                                                        TYP PARKING SP's
                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66       WB-65 TRUCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MANEUVERING PATH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHARED PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY                                   EXIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIQUOR                                                                                    NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEE SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                    7 BIKE WAVE RACK
                                                                                                                                                                                    (TYP.) 3 TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STORE                                                              TRANSFORMER            WITH ADJACENT LAND OWNER AND
                                                                                                                                                                                    21 BIKE PARKING                                        1,438 S.F.                                                                               SP-1.01b SHARED PARKING PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOADING AREA
                                                 END OF 8FT HIGH BUFFER
                                                 WALL TO TERMINATE INTO
                                                 EXIST RETAINING WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GEN SET 500 KW
                                                                                              22                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                   SUPERMARKET
                                                                                                                                                                                      TENANT                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL 10' X 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOADING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESCRIPTION:
                                                 8FT HIGH BUFFER




                                                                                                                                      A AS
                                                                                                                                                                                              20,799 S.F.




                                                                                                                                   HT O
                                                 WALL STEPPED TO




                                                                                                                              20 11
                                                                                                                                      P
                                                 ALIGN W/ CONTOURS




                                                                                                                            (US)
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMPACTOR
             LANDSCAPING NOTE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL 9.25' X 18'
                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROOM 208 V 3 Ø                              PEDESTRIAN ACCESS
             LANDSCAPING ALONG THE SOUTHWEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOTE:
                                                                                                                     A AS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COOLER/FREEZER
                                                                                                          HTO
                                                                                                              2011
                                                                                                   (US       P
                                                                                                      )


             PROPERTY LINE SHALL BE REVIEWED AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATION




                                                     ADJACENT ZONING
                                                     (SR) SETTLER RESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (INCLUDED IN SF)                            PEDESTRIAN ACCESS SHALL BE DEVELOPED
             APPROVED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.


                                                        ADJACENT LAND USE



                                                                             ZONED SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENCLOSED                                                                   ON THIS PROPERTY WITH THE CROSS ACCESS
                                                            RESIDENTIAL                            TURNAROUND                                                                                                                                                               LOADING DOCK                                       NW
                                                                                                      AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AGREEMENT. ACCESS SHALL OCCUR WITH
                                                                                                                                                           18                                                                                                                                                                                            FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.




                                                                                                                                    AASHTO 2011 (US)
             BUFFER WALL NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SW                         NE
                                                                       DENTIAL
                                                                       DISTRICT

                                                                                                     21                                     19




                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                           :




             BUFFER WALL CONSTRUCTION INCLUDING
             EXCAVATION, FILL, FOUNDATIONS WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SE
             CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO BUILDING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TERMINATE BUFFER WALL
             CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2'' FROM PROPERTY LINE
                                              8FT HIGH
                                              BUFFER WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8FT HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74.27' D.
                                                                                                        Y BUFFER                                                                                                                                                                                             BUFFER WALL
                                                                                        EXISTING HIGHWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E. O. P.

                                              8FT HIGH BUFFER WALL
                                              STEPPED DOWN TO ALIGN
                                              W/ TOP OF ADJACENT FENCE

5                           E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST ASPHALT DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO BE REMOVED & SODDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OLD                STATE                                                ROAD                   4A
                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND LANDSCAPED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ZONED RE                                                                                          E. O. P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZONED RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)
                                                           E. O. P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT (RE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RESIDENTIAL ESTATE                                                                                                                                          RESIDENTIAL ESTATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADJACENT LAND USE: RESIDENTIAL



                                       ZONED SR
                             ADJACENT ZONING DISTRICT
                             (SR) SETTLER RESIDENTIAL
                                ADJACENT LAND USE:
                                    RESIDENTIAL




       A                                     B                                                                                                                  C                                                                 D                                                                                        E                                                                  F                                    G
Attachment B
Attachment C
Attachment D
Attachment G
Attachment H
Attachment I
         WINN DIXIE

    MILE MARKER 81

ISLAMORADA, FLORIDA


LEVEL III TRAFFIC STUDY

              Prepared for
          FDA Properties, LLC
  3565 Piedmont Rd., Bldg. 1, Suite #530
         Atlanta, Georgia 30305
             404 995 1770

              Prepared by
       Keys Traffic Studies. LLC
         725 Plantation Drive
       Titusville. Florida 32780
            (305) 322 6556




            REVISED
         FEBRUARY 2011
                  JN 1052




                                           Richard P. Eichinger, Principal
                                            Traffic Engineering Manager
                                               Keys Traffic Studies, LLC
                                                          (305) 322-6556

                                      Henry A. Fandrei, P.E., P.O.T.E.
                                      Florida P.E. Registration # 31478
                                               Fandrei Consulting, Inc.
                                                        (305) 921-9855
                                                    WINN DIXIE

                                               MILE MARKER 81

                                         ISLAMORADA, FLORIDA
                                       LEVEL III TRAFFIC STUDY


                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION ...............................................................................................................1
ACCESS AND ADJACENT LAND USES ........................................................................1
EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUME........................................................................................1
TRAFFIC GENERATION .................................................................................................1
DISTRIBUTION AND TRIP LENGTH ............................................................................6
SEASONAL TRAFFIC ADJUSTMENT ............................................................................6
HISTORICAL TRAFFIC VOLUME ..................................................................................6
FUTURE BUILD-OUT YEAR TRAFFIC ..........................................................................7
PM PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE...........................................................................7
US 1 ARTERIAL TRAFFIC SUMMARY .........................................................................7
SIGHT TRIANGLES AND VEHICLE MANEUVERABILITY .......................................7
LOCATION OF MEDIAN OPENINGS ALONG US 1 .....................................................7
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................................................7

                                                       TABLES

Table 1A ­ Key Largo Winn Dixie Trip Generation Rate Study ........................................4
Table 1B -- Daily and PM Peak Hour Trip Generation .......................................................5
Table 2 ­ Existing and Proposed Traffic Volume ...............................................................8
Table 3 ­ Levels of Service Analyses Summary .................................................................9
Table 4 ­ Arterial Trip Assignment Summary .................................................................12


                                                      FIGURES

Figure 1 ­ General Location Map ........................................................................................2
Figure 2 ­ Existing Peak Hour Traffic ................................................................................3
Figure 3 ­ PM Peak Hour Site Only Traffic .....................................................................10
Figure 4 ­ 2012 PM Peak Hour Volume with Site ............................................................11

                                                     APPENDIX

                               TURNING MOVEMENT DATA
                                FDOT SEASONAL FACTORS
                                INTERSECTION ANALYSES
                                2010 US 1 CAPACITY TABLE
                     KEY LARGO WINN DIXIE TRIP GENERATION DATA
                      ITE TRIP GENERATION & ITE RESOURCE PAGES
                          MONROE COUNTY POPULATION DATA
                                   REDUCED SITE PLAN
                                  WINN DIXIE
                                MILE MARKER 81
                             ISLAMORADA, FLORIDA
                            LEVEL III TRAFFIC STUDY
INTRODUCTION
The Winn Dixie developers are proposing to remove all existing buildings and construct
a new 22,378 sf Winn Dixie Supermarket near US 1 Mile Marker 81 in Islamorada,
Florida. Except for a 1,520 sf dry cleaning business, all existing businesses have left the
proposed Winn Dixie (WD) site. According to WD management, they plan to hire
approximately 120 employees, which will be attending the facility on a daily basis. WD
management also stated that no marketing analysis has been performed regarding an
estimate of daily customer use. Figure 1 depicts the general location and a reduced site
plan is in the appendix. A full and complete drawing set can be obtained from Village
staff.
ACCESS AND ADJACENT LAND USES
The site is located along US 1 near Mile Marker 81. The proposed development will
have one (1) access point along US 1. See the attached reduced site plan for more details.
Commercial land uses and/or zoning exist abutting both the north and south property
lines.
EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUME
After coordinating specific intersections to be studied with the Village's traffic
consultant, seven (7) US 1 intersection locations were selected to measure existing and
future impacts of the proposed Winn Dixie supermarket. In the original July 2010 traffic
report, US 1 & Founder's Park's entrance at US 1 was studied. However, since the
Founders Park driveway is only about five miles away from an existing Winn Dixie
supermarket in Tavernier, no analysis was needed at the Founder's Park entrance. The
remaining locations to be studied are as follows:
       CR 905 near Mile Marker 84.3
       Blackwood Drive near Mile Marker 81.9
       Johnston Road near Mile Marker 81.6
       Winn Dixie's future driveway near Mile Marker 81.0
       Old Highway near Mile Marker 80.5
       White Marlin Drive near Mile Marker 74.3
       Sunset Drive near Mile Marker 74.3
Using the year 2010 US 1 Arterial Time and Delay Study for Monroe County (the latest
available study) to determine the peak time of day for US 1 traffic volume along Upper
Matecumbe Key, it was determined that the 11:30 AM to 2:00 PM time period would
capture the general peak period of US 1 mainline traffic volume. Therefore, data were
collected during the midday peak period on Thursday, January 28, 2010 at all
intersections listed above, except for the WD driveway. The exact one-hour peak period
volume will be used to assess existing and proposed traffic impacts at the intersections
under study. Figure 2 depicts existing peak hour traffic volume at the intersections under
study.
TRAFFIC GENERATION
To obtain traffic generation rates of a typical supermarket germane to the Keys, an
existing Winn Dixie supermarket in Key Largo near US 1 Mile Marker 105.3 was used to
study daily and peak period ingress and egress volumes at the driveways. The data were
collected at site driveways over a 48 hour period beginning August 4, 2010. The raw data
are in the appendix. Also included in the appendix is the Monroe County tax record
which depicts the size of the store at 38,099 sf. According to the store's manager, the Key
Largo WD store is open from 7:00 AM to 9:00 PM.
                                              1
                                                                                       Street Atlas USA® 2008




Data use subject to license.                           TN                           Scale 1 : 34,375
                                                            0          1000          2000         3000      4000   5000
                                                                                                                          ft
© 2007 DeLorme. Street Atlas USA® 2008.   MN (5.4°W)
                                                            0    200          400    600    800      1000
                                                                                                                          m


www.delorme.com                                                 1" = 2,864.6 ft                      Data Zoom 12-5
TRAFFIC GENERATION (continued)

The Key Largo WD site has two points of ingress and egress; one driveway directly
along US1 and the other driveway connects with Blackwater Lane, which connects with
US 1. There is no other traffic that uses Blackwater Lane, so the WD traffic was easy to
isolate using the two main sources of ingress and egress.

The raw data collected at the Key Largo WD reveals that the US 1 traffic volume during
AM peak two-hour period occurs from 9:00 to 11:00 AM The two-hour late morning to
early PM peak period occurs from 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM, which is consistent with the
midday peak period of the data collected at the intersections under study in Islamorada.
                                       Table 1A
                                 Key Largo Winn Dixie
                              Trip Generation Rate Study

                                    Daily Two Way Volume
               Location              Day 1         Day 2             Average

               Blackwater Lane       409               387             398
               WD driveway         1,925             1,828           1,877
                            Totals 2,334             2,215           2,275

                                     Peak Hour Volume
                           Day 1              Day 2                       Average
Location              In     Out     Total In     Out        Total   In      Out    Total

Blackwater Lane      18        38     56      12      30      42      15      34     49
WD driveway         130       120    250     104     110     214     117     115    232
             Totals 148       158    306     116     140     256     132     149    281

The WD driveway data reveal that the average daily trip rate for the WD Key Largo
supermarket is 59.71 trips/1,000 sf during the two day study. As posted in the 8th edition
of the Institute of Transportation Engineers' (ITE) Trip Generation report for land use
code #850 beginning on page 1572, the national average rate is 102.24 trips/1,000 sf, but
may include ancillary uses as described on page 1572 of the ITE report.

The Key Largo WD peak hour generator rate is 7.38 trips/1,000 sf compared to ITE's rate
of 11.85 trips/1,000 sf. The ITE data are in the appendix.

Both the daily and peak hour rates are increased by a seasonal factor of 13%, hence the
daily rate is 67.47 (59.71*1.13) = 67.47 and the peak hour rate is 8.34 (7.38*1.13) = 8.34.

Based on data reported on page 52 of the 2nd edition of ITE's Trip Generation Handbook,
a 56% pass-by rate is used to reduce both daily and peak hour trip rates. The pass-by rate
is based on supermarket's having less than 25,000 sf as shown on page 52 of the ITE
handbook. No pass-by rates are used to reduce traffic to the existing use at the Islamorada
WD site, although they likely exist and not relevant when determining driveway only
volume.

No data were collected at the site drives for the existing dry cleaners at the future WD
site (the only remaining business still operating); hence specialty retail use ITE code
#814 is used to depict trip generation for the existing 1,520 sf dry cleaners.

Because there is only one way in and out of the Keys and that the only commuter
roadway is the Overseas Highway (US 1), diverted link trips are not appropriate as
described by ITE"s definition of diverted links (see appendix). To use a diverted link, an
alternate road is needed to the generator other than the road the generator has direct
access to. For the Upper Keys, there is no alternate roadway.

                                            4
Even Old Highway 4A (a parallel roadway to US 1) through Islamorada has very little
continuity and both ending and beginning points terminate at US 1 in Segment 19. There
is no roadway grid system in Islamorada, which s typically found on the mainland.

It is logical to assume that most of the trips generated by the proposed Islamorada WD
are already on the road going to currently existing supermarkets. This is especially true
for residents of Islamorada. US 1 is the only road that they can use to buy non-
discretionary products like everyday food supplies.

Residents and visitors alike currently use the only existing sources for supermarket food.
Every resident and guest uses US 1 to get to a required major food source. The new WD
will only make it convenient for many people to travel shorter distances to acquire what
they must have on a daily basis. For that reason, the logic is simple; using 100% of the
trip generation rates is neither reasonable nor logical.

After researching information typically available to the traffic engineering sciences, there
are no known traffic studies or methodologies that address traffic patterns on a linear
chain of islands such as the Florida Keys. It is well known that there are a finite number
of residents in Islamorada. The US 1 Travel Time Study, which is performed throughout
the Keys every year in March, depicts a 0.0% increase in traffic volume in Upper
Matecumbe. This is performed using a regression analysis going back to 1993 (data are in
the appendix). And according to Village staff, a cap is in place for transient housing.

The author of this report having 32 years experience in traffic engineering principles and
practices and authoring over 500 Monroe County traffic studies (all approved by peer
review), suggests that a reasonable approach and thought process must be used to think
outside standard "by-the-book" practices. Based on the empirical experience of this
author, it is firmly believed that reducing the supermarket trips is a reasonable and
applicable methodology. However, to remain conservative no discount for existing
trips are used to depict traffic generation for the proposed Winn Dixie in
Islamorada

Based on the information above, a summary of the daily volume for the Islamorada WD
is as follows:

      Daily volume: 67.47 * 22.378 = 1,510 daily trips (gross trips).
      Reduction due to pass-by: (-56%) = 664 (1,510 * 0.44 = 664) daily trips.
      Peak hour volume: 187 (8.34 * 22.378 = 187).
      No reduction of peak hour trips is used at the WD driveway.
                                      Table 1B
                      Existing and Proposed Daily & Peak Hour
                               Trip Generation Volume
                                              US 1                Peak Hour
                                              Daily            Driveway Volume
       Land Use                              Volume            In    Out    Total
       Proposed:
             Supermarket: 22,378 sf               6641          88     99        1872
       Existing:
              Retail: 1,520 sf                    -61            -4         -4    -8
       Net new trips:                             603            84         95   179
       Note: 1 Daily supermarket trips include a reduction of 56% pass-by
             2 Peak hour trips are not reduced at the new WD driveway.
                                              5
DISTRIBUTION & TRIP LENGTH

The limits along US 1 of the Village of Islamorada are MM 72.66 to the south and MM
90.94 to the north. Many of the Monroe County residents living south of Islamorada may
also use the new supermarket at MM 81 and likely reduce their current trip lengths to a
supermarket, which they now use further north. To accommodate some new use of the
proposed Islamorada WD by residents living north of the village, trip lengths to the north
have been extended and will eclipse the existing WD store in Tavernier at MM 91.5.

Using Monroe County's population information (attached in the appendix) and aerials of
the Upper Keys including Islamorada, it becomes apparent that the population is heavily
weighted north of the proposed WD site. This suggests that the distribution of trips is
heavily weighted to the north. Therefore, distribution is estimated at 65% north and 35%
south. Trip lengths to the north are shorter than to the south due to the availability of
three existing major supermarkets in Tavernier and the Key Largo area. There is a lack of
supermarkets within a reasonable driving distance to the south of MM 81. Therefore,
average trip lengths to the north are estimated at 6 miles (12 miles maximum), which will
overlap the existing Tavernier WD by two miles. Average trip lengths to the south are
estimated at 10 miles (20 miles maximum) or about 25 miles north of Marathon.
Marathon currently hosts several major food sources. Based on the information above,
distribution of peak period trips are made accordingly and depicted in Figure 3 discussed
later in this report.

SEASONAL TRAFFIC ADJUSTMENT

The Florida Department of Transportation's year 2009 weekly seasonal volume table
(latest available) was used to estimate peak seasonal traffic conditions from the data
collected in January. The data collected were increased by 4.0 % to peak season condition

HISTORICAL TRAFFIC VOLUME

The company's intention is to have the project built and operating by the close of year
2012. Therefore, existing traffic volumes were factored for yearly growth. The year
2010 US 1 Arterial Travel Time and Delay Study for Monroe County, Florida
was used as a guide to factor existing volume to year 2012 conditions. As per the travel
time and delay study, the current traffic volume growth rate along US 1 in Upper
Matecumbe has remained flat @ 0.0%. However, a positive 1.0% growth rate is used to
conservatively depict build-out conditions in year 2012. The 2010 growth rate chart is
posted in the appendix and depicts a growth rate of 0.0% for Upper Matecumbe near US
1 MM 84.


                                            6
FUTURE BUILD-OUT YEAR TRAFFIC

Table 2 depicts the midday peak hour volume collected at the intersections under study.
Table 2 also shows peak season traffic, a two (2) year growth and the proposed
development's peak hour traffic volume (as shown in Table 1B). Figure 3 depicts peak
hour traffic at the intersections under study and Figure 4 depicts peak season, a two-year
growth and site peak hour traffic at the intersections under study..

PM PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE & SUMMARY

Table 3 summarizes PM peak hour levels of service (LOS) analyses performed at the
intersections under study. All future year analyses reflect PM peak hour traffic volume
conditions during the peak season (peak day, during the peak week) and a two-year
annualized growth. All intersection movements will operate within acceptable LOS
conditions after build-out and occupancy of the proposed development.

US 1 ARTERIAL TRAFFIC SUMMARY

Table 4 depicts the trips to be generated along various US 1 segments by the proposed
Winn Dixie store in Islamorada.

SITE TRIANGLES AND ON-SITE VEHICLE MANEUVERABILITY

Sight triangles and vehicle maneuverability will be shown on the final site plan to be
submitted with the application. Reduced versions of the sight plans are included in the
appendix. The plan shows a clear sight triangle measuring 250 feet in both directions
along US 1 from a point 30 feet back from the US 1 travel lane. This is consistent with
Islamorada's code.

LOCATION OF MEDIAN OPENINGS ALONG US 1

There are no median openings along this portion of US 1 in Islamorada.

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS

According to the well established US 1 Travel Time and Delay study methodology, the
proposed Islamorada Winn Dixie is situated in Segment 19 as shown in the 2010 Level of
Service and Reserve Capacity table shown in the appendix. As seen in Table 4, US 1
Segment 19 has 611 available trips. The proposed WD site will use about 392 of the trips
leaving a balance of 219 available trips. When using the stated 5% allocation below level
of service (LOS) C, Segment 18 has 727 available trips. The proposed WD will use about
186 trips leaving a balance of 541trips is Segment 18. Segment 17 has 940 available trips
using the 5% allocation below LOS C. WD will use about 150 trips leaving a balance of
about 803 trips.

All intersections under study will operate within acceptable level of service conditions
after build-out and occupancy of the Islamorada Winn Dixie supermarket. Design of the
site's proposed driveway along US 1 will be reviewed by the Florida Department of
Transportation and the developer will respond to their comments when and if needed.

                                            7
                                                               TABLE 2
                                            TRAFFIC VOLUME AT STUDY LOCATIONS
                                   (US 1 considered a north / south roadway for analysis purposes)


                                                                                   YEAR                                  YEAR
                                                                                   2012              YEAR                2012
                                                                PEAK           BACKGROUND            2012                WITH
                                            2010              SEASON             GROWTH           WITHOUT                 SITE
                                            PEAK             INCREASE           INCREASE            SITE        SITE     TOTAL
US 1 INTERSECTIONS                         VOLUME             VOLUME1            VOLUME2          SUBTOTAL     VOLUME   VOLUME

CR 905
           WB LEFT                              6                  0                  0                    6      0         6
           WB RIGHT                             7                  0                  0                    7      0         7
           NB THRU                            834                 33                  8                  875     62       937
           NB RIGHT                            13                  1                  0                   14      0        14
           SB LEFT                              3                  0                  0                    3      0         3
           SB THRU                            933                 37                  9                  979     57      1036

Blackwood Drive
          EB LEFT                               6                  0                  0                 6         0         6
          EB THRU                               0                  0                  0                 0         0         0
          EB RIGHT                              3                  0                  0                 3         0         3
          WB LEFT                               3                  0                  0                 3         0         3
          WB THRU                               0                  0                  0                 0         0         0
          WB RIGHT                             16                  1                  0                17         0        17
          NB LEFT                               5                  0                  0                 5         0         5
          NB THRU                            1015                 41                 10              1066        62      1128
          NB RIGHT                              2                  0                  0                 2         0         2
          SB LEFT                              19                  1                  0                20         0        20
          SB THRU                             866                 35                  9               910        57       967
          SB RIGHT                              6                  0                  0                 6         0         6

Johnston Road
          EB LEFT                               7                  0                  0                 7         0         7
          EB THRU                               0                  0                  0                 0         0         0
          EB RIGHT                             13                  1                  0                14         0        14
          WB LEFT                               3                  0                  0                 3         0         3
          WB THRU                               0                  0                  0                 0         0         0
          WB RIGHT                             22                  1                  0                23         0        23
          NB LEFT                              14                  1                  0                15         0        15
          NB THRU                             890                 36                  9               935        62       997
          NB RIGHT                              6                  0                  0                 6         0         6
          SB LEFT                              32                  1                  0                33         0        33
          SB THRU                             979                 39                 10              1028        57      1085
          SB RIGHT                             25                  1                  0                26         0        26

Winn Dixie Drive
           WB LEFT                             0                   0                  0                0         35        35
           WB RIGHT                            0                   0                  0                0         64        64
           NB THRU                            890                 36                  9               935         0       935
           NB RIGHT                            0                   0                  0                0         31        31
           SB LEFT                             0                   0                  0                0         57        57
           SB THRU                            979                 39                 10              1028         0      1028

Old Highway 4A
          WB LEFT                              10                  0                  0                   10      0       10
          WB RIGHT                              5                  0                  0                    5      0        5
          NB THRU                             778                 31                  8                  817     31      848
          NB RIGHT                              9                  0                  0                    9      0        9
          SB LEFT                               1                  0                  0                    1      0        1
          SB THRU                             682                 27                  7                  716     34      750

White Marlin Drive
           EB LEFT                             11                  0                  0                   11      0       11
           EB RIGHT                            19                  1                  0                   20      0       20
           NB LEFT                             22                  1                  0                   23      0       23
           NB THRU                            623                 25                  6                  654     31      685
           SB THRU                            561                 22                  6                  589     34      623
           SB RIGHT                             9                  0                  0                    9      0        9

Sunset Drive
           WB LEFT                              0                  0                  0                    0      0        0
           WB RIGHT                            10                  0                  0                   10      0       10
           NB THRU                            645                 26                  6                  677     31      708
           NB RIGHT                             3                  0                  0                    3      0        3
           SB LEFT                              4                  0                  0                    4      0        4
           SB THRU                            576                 23                  6                  605     34      639

         1 Existing volume increased by 4.0% to depict peak season conditions
         2 Existing volume increased by an annualized rate of 0.5% to depict growth in 2012 conditions




                                                                                                                                 Islamorada Winn Dixie
                                                                                                                                             JN 1052


                                                                       8
                                TABLE 3
               Level of Service (LOS) at Study Locatons
    (US 1 considered an north / south roadway for analysis purposes)

                                                              YEAR
                                                       YEAR    2012
                                            2010        2012  WITH
                                           MIDDAY     WITHOUT SITE
                                            PEAK        SITE  TOTAL
US 1 INTERSECTION AND APPROACH              LOS         LOS    LOS

CR 905
         WB LEFT & RIGHT                      C           C            C
         SB LEFT                              A           A            B

Blackwood Drive
        EB LEFT, THRU & RIGHT                 C           C            C
        WB LEFT, THRU & RIGHT                 C           C            C
        NB LEFT                               B           B            B
        SB LEFT                               B           B            B

Johnston Road
         EB LEFT, THRU & RIGHT                C           C            C
         WB LEFT, THRU & RIGHT                B           B            C
         NB LEFT                              B           B            B
         SB LEFT                              B           B            B

Winn Dixie Drive
         WB LEFT & RIGHT                     N/A         N/A           C
         SB LEFT                             N/A         N/A           B

Old Highway 4 A
         WB LEFT                              C           C            C
         WB RIGHT                             B           B            B
         SB LEFT                              A           A            B

Marlin Drive
          EB LEFT & RIGHT                     B           B            B
          NB LEFT                             A           A            A

Sunset Drive
        WB LEFT & RIGHT                       B           B            B
        SB LEFT                               A           A            A




                                                                           Islamorada Winn Dixie
                                    9                                                   JN 1052
1
1
                                                                                                                                                                               Winn Dixie
                                                                                                                                                                                 JN 1052

                                                 TABLE 4 WINN DIXIE SUPERMARKET ARTERIAL TRIP ASSIGNMENT SUMMARY

     Project:                 Winn Dixie                           Trip Generation Source:

     Location:                Islamorada                             ITE    X

     Approx. US-1 MM:             81.0
                                                                   OTHER X       See Report
     Development Type: Supermarket

     Project Size:             See report                    Daily Trip Ends -
                                                                    Weekday:
     Average Trip Length: Trip Distribution:                        Saturday:
            6 miles N / E           65 % N / E                        Sunday:
           10 miles S / W           35 % S / W               Weighted Daily:

                                               (1)                                       (2)         (3)                                                     Year      Less      2010
      Total       Percent       Percent      Primary       US-1   US-1 Segment Limits Percent % Impact                        Project                        2010    Estimated Remaining
      Daily       Pass-By       Primary       Trips       Segment Begin      End     Directional Based on                   Generated                       Reserve     Site    Reserve
      Trips        Trips         Trips                    Number   MM         MM        Split   Trip Length                    Trips                        Capacity Volume     Capacity
                                                                                                                  (1)       (2)       (3)




12
       603            0           100          603          #1       4.0          5.0         35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #2       5.0          9.0         35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #3       9.0          10.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #4       10.5         16.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #5       16.5         20.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #6       20.5         23.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #7       23.0         24.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #8       24.0         27.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #9       27.5         29.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #10      29.5         33.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #11      33.0         40.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #12      40.0         47.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #13      47.0         54.0        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #14      54.0         60.5        35     0        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #15      60.5         63.0        35     4        (   603   *   0.35   *   0.04   )   =    8      1,565       8          1,557
                                                            #16      63.0         73.0        35     35       (   603   *   0.35   *   0.35   )   =    74     6,722       74         6,648
                                                            #17      73.0         77.5        35     71       (   603   *   0.35   *   0.71   )   =   150      940*      150          803*
                                                            #18      77.5         79.5        35     88       (   603   *   0.35   *   0.88   )   =   186      727*      186          541*
                 Project Segment --------------------->     #19      79.5         84.0        65    100       (   603   *   0.65   *   1.00   )   =   392       611      392          219
                                                            #20      84.0         86.0        65     67       (   603   *   0.65   *   0.67   )   =   263     4,468      263         4,205
                                                            #21      86.0         91.5        65     35       (   603   *   0.65   *   0.35   )   =   137     2,881      137         2,744
                                                            #22      91.5         99.5        65     1        (   603   *   0.65   *   0.01   )   =    4      9,539       4          9,535
                                                            #23      99.5        106.0        65     0        (   603   *   0.65   *   0.00   )   =    0
                                                            #24     106.0        112.5        65     0        (   603   *   0.65   *   0.00   )   =    0

                                                                                                                                                            * LOS C Allocation
APPENDIX
TURNING MOVEMENT DATA
                                                    Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                   13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                    Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                            Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                             File Name    : cr905
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                               CR 905                                 US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                 From North                                  From East                                       From South
            Start Time   Left              Thru   U-TURNS         Left              R-O-R             Rght    Thru         R-O-R             Rght     U-TURNS         Int. Total
          11:30 AM        1             139             0          1                  0                 1     169            0                 3            0            314
          11:45 AM        0             156             0          2                  0                 1     196            0                 5            0            360
              Total       1             295             0          3                  0                 2     365            0                 8            0            674

           12:00 PM       0             262             0          0                  0                 2     197            0                 3            0           464
           12:15 PM       2             218             0          0                  0                 3     219            0                 5            0           447
           12:30 PM       1             216             0          3                  0                 1     210            0                 2            0           433
           12:45 PM       0             237             0          3                  0                 1     208            0                 3            0           452
               Total      3             933             0          6                  0                 7     834            0                13            0          1796

           01:00 PM        1            164             0           2                 0                 0     192            0                 4            0           363
           01:15 PM        2            188             0           4                 0                 1     201            0                 6            0           402
         Grand Total       7           1580             0         15                  0               10     1592            0               31             0          3235
          Apprch %       0.4           99.6             0         60                  0               40      98.1           0               1.9            0
            Total %      0.2           48.8             0         0.5                 0               0.3     49.2           0                 1            0
                                                                                      Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                                     13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                                      Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                              Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                             File Name         : cr905
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                                     Page No           :2


                                                       US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                                 CR 905                                   US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                               From North                                  From East                                         From South
                      Start Time             Left            Thru      U-TURNS   App. Total     Left   R-O-R           Rght   App. Total   Thru   R-O-R           Rght    U-TURNS        App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
              12:00 PM             0         262                           0         262         0         0              2          2      197      0            3             0            200             464
              12:15 PM             2         218                           0         220         0         0              3          3      219      0            5             0            224             447
              12:30 PM             1         216                           0         217         3         0              1          4      210      0            2             0            212             433
              12:45 PM             0         237                           0         237         3         0              1          4      208      0            3             0            211             452
         Total Volume              3         933                           0         936         6         0              7         13      834      0           13             0            847            1796
         % App. Total            0.3        99.7                           0                  46.2         0           53.8                98.5      0          1.5             0
                   PHF          .375        .890                        .000        .893      .500      .000           .583      .813      .952   .000         .650          .000           .945             .968
                                 Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                             13284 SW 120th Street
                                              Miami, Florida, 33186
                                      Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                      File Name    : cr905
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                               Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                              Page No      :3

                                               US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                               Out      In    Total
                                                 841     936    1777


                                                   933    3     0
                                                 Thru Left U-TURNS




                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                                                    Out
                                                                                      16




                                                        North
                                                                            Rght
                                                                               7
                                                                                      In




                                             Peak Hour Begins at 12:00 PM
                                                                                        13
                                                                                    CR 905




                                                                            Left




                                             AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                                                                                6
                                                                                    Total
                                                                                       29




                                                 Thru Rght U-TURNS
                                                   834   13     0


                                                 939     847    1786
                                               Out      In    Total
                                               US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                                Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                 Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                         Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                   File Name       : blackwood
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                         Site Code       : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                            Start Date      : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                           Page No         :1

                                                                                   Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                         BLACKWOOD DRIVE                               US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                        BLACKWOOD DRIVE
                                 From North                                  From East                                       From South                                From West
      Start Time   Left    Thru      R-O-R    Right   U-TURNS    Left       Thru       R-O-R        Rght       Left    Thru      R-O-R    Rght   U-TURNS    Left       Thru      R-O-R   Rght   Int. Total
     11:30 AM        1     183         0         0         0       0          0         0          1         1       304          0         1         0       1          0          0      0       492
     11:45 AM        7     281         0         2         0       2          0         0          4         1       280          0         1         0       2          0          0      0       580
         Total       8     464         0         2         0       2          0         0          5         2       584          0         2         0       3          0          0      0      1072

     12:00 PM       9      257         0         4         0       0          0         0         7          2       295          0         0         0      2           0          0      0       576
     12:15 PM       2      145         0         0         0       1          0         0         4          1       136          0         0         0      1           0          0      3       293
     12:30 PM       3      174         0         1         0       1          0         0         4          2       169          0         0         0      5           0          0      0       359
     12:45 PM       2      142         0         1         0       1          0         0         4          2       121          0         1         0      3           0          0      1       278
         Total     16      718         0         6         0       3          0         0        19          7       721          0         1         0     11           0          0      4      1506

     01:00 PM        1     105         0         0         0       2          0         0         5          5      147           0         1         0       3          0          0       2      271
     01:15 PM        4     179         0         2         0       2          0         0         2          0      162           0         2         0       0          0          0       0      353
   Grand Total      29    1466         0       10          0       9          0         0       31         14      1614           0         6         0     17           0          0       6     3202
    Apprch %       1.9    97.4         0       0.7         0    22.5          0         0      77.5        0.9     98.8           0       0.4         0    73.9          0          0    26.1
       Total %     0.9    45.8         0       0.3         0     0.3          0         0         1        0.4     50.4           0       0.2         0     0.5          0          0     0.2
                                                                                      Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                                        13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                                         Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                                 Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                                           File Name         : blackwood
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                                                   Page No           :2


                                     US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                                 BLACKWOOD DRIVE                              US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                               BLACKWOOD DRIVE
                                             From North                                        From East                                        From South                                      From West
        Start Time       Left     Thru    R-O-R      Right U-TURNS   App. Total    Left   Thru  R-O-R    Rght   App. Total    Left    Thru   R-O-R     Rght U-TURNS   App. Total    Left   Thru  R-O-R    Rght   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:30 AM
    11:30 AM         1     183       0       0      0                     184        0       0       0      1          1        1     304       0       1        0        306         1       0      0      0            1       492
    11:45 AM         7     281       0       2      0                     290        2       0       0      4          6        1     280       0       1        0        282         2       0      0      0            2       580
    12:00 PM         9     257       0       4      0                     270        0       0       0      7          7        2     295       0       0        0        297         2       0      0      0            2       576
    12:15 PM         2     145       0       0      0                     147        1       0       0      4          5        1     136       0       0        0        137         1       0      0      3            4       293
 Total Volume       19     866       0       6      0                     891        3       0       0     16         19        5    1015       0       2        0       1022         6       0      0      3            9      1941
 % App. Total      2.1    97.2       0     0.7      0                             15.8       0       0   84.2                 0.5    99.3       0     0.2        0                 66.7       0      0   33.3
          PHF    .528     .770    .000   .375    .000                    .768     .375    .000    .000   .571       .679     .625    .835    .000    .500     .000        .835     .750    .000   .000   .250        .563        .837
                                                              Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                         13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                          Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                  Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                      File Name    : blackwood
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                               Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                              Page No      :3

                                                                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                                            Out     In     Total
                                                                            1037     891    1928


                                                                              6  866          19      0
                                                                          Right Thru        Left U-TURNS




                                                                         Peak Hour Data




                                            20
                                                 6



                                         Total
                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                          21




                                                      Left
                                                                                        North
                                                                                                             16




                                     9
                                                          0



                                  In
                                                                                                                              In




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 11:30 AM
                                                                                                           Rght Thru
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                19




                                                    3
                                                                          AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES




                             11
                                                                                                           Left




                                                 Rght Thru
                                                                                                                  3




                           Out
                                                                                                                        BLACKWOOD DRIVE




                           BLACKWOOD DRIVE
                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                        40




                                                                           Left       Thru Rght U-TURNS
                                                                                  5   1015    2      0


                                                                             872    1022    1894
                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                                Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                               13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                        Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                  File Name     : johnston
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                        Site Code     : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                          Page No       :1

                                                                                 Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                         JOHNSTON RD.                                US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                        JOHNSTON RD.
                                 From North                                From East                                       From South                              From West
      Start Time   Left    Thru      R-O-R    Right   U-TURNS    Left     Thru       R-O-R        Rght       Left    Thru      R-O-R    Rght   U-TURNS    Left     Thru      R-O-R    Rght   Int. Total
     11:30 AM        4     168         0         8         0       0        1         0          2         2       224          0         1         0       3        0          0       6        419
     11:45 AM        3     252         0        11         0       0        0         0          3         8       230          0         2         0       3        0          0       5        517
         Total       7     420         0        19         0       0        1         0          5        10       454          0         3         0       6        0          0      11        936

     12:00 PM       8      256         0         3         0       2        0         0         6          2       254          0         1         0       1        0          0       5       538
     12:15 PM      14      228         0         9         0       0        0         0         5          1       200          0         1         0       2        0          0       0       460
     12:30 PM       7      243         0         2         0       1        0         0         8          3       206          0         2         0       1        0          0       3       476
     12:45 PM       6      182         0         4         0       1        0         0         7          6       158          0         3         0       1        0          0       2       370
         Total     35      909         0        18         0       4        0         0        26         12       818          0         7         0       5        0          0      10      1844

     01:00 PM        2     195         0         4         0       2        0         0         5          2      211           0         3         0       1        0          0       5       430
     01:15 PM        6     201         0         1         0       3        0         0         5          0      199           0         6         0       2        0          0       5       428
   Grand Total      50    1725         0       42          0       9        1         0       41         24      1682           0       19          0     14         0          0      31      3638
    Apprch %       2.8    94.9         0       2.3         0    17.6        2         0      80.4        1.4     97.5           0       1.1         0    31.1        0          0    68.9
       Total %     1.4    47.4         0       1.2         0     0.2        0         0       1.1        0.7     46.2           0       0.5         0     0.4        0          0     0.9
                                                                                      Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                                        13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                                         Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                                 Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                                             File Name          : johnston
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                                                   Site Code          : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date         : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                                                     Page No            :2


                                     US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                                   JOHNSTON RD.                                US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                                 JOHNSTON RD.
                                             From North                                        From East                                         From South                                      From West
        Start Time       Left     Thru    R-O-R      Right U-TURNS   App. Total    Left   Thru  R-O-R     Rght   App. Total    Left   Thru    R-O-R     Rght U-TURNS   App. Total    Left   Thru  R-O-R     Rght   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:45 AM
    11:45 AM         3     252       0      11      0                    266         0       0       0      3           3        8     230      0        2        0         240        3       0      0       5           8        517
    12:00 PM         8     256       0       3      0                    267         2       0       0      6           8        2     254      0        1        0         257        1       0      0       5           6        538
    12:15 PM        14     228       0       9      0                    251         0       0       0      5           5        1     200      0        1        0         202        2       0      0       0           2        460
    12:30 PM         7     243       0       2      0                    252         1       0       0      8           9        3     206      0        2        0         211        1       0      0       3           4        476
 Total Volume       32     979       0      25      0                   1036         3       0       0     22          25       14     890      0        6        0         910        7       0      0      13          20       1991
 % App. Total      3.1    94.5       0     2.4      0                               12       0       0     88                  1.5    97.8      0      0.7        0                   35       0      0      65
          PHF    .571     .956    .000   .568    .000                    .970     .375    .000    .000   .688        .694     .438    .876   .000     .750     .000        .885     .583    .000   .000    .650        .625        .925
                                                              Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                         13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                          Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                  Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                     File Name    : johnston
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                              Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                             Page No      :3

                                                                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                             919    1036    1955


                                                                             25  979       32      0
                                                                          Right Thru     Left U-TURNS




                                                                         Peak Hour Data




                                            59
                                                 7



                                         Total
                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                        38




                                                      Left
                                                                                     North
                                                                                                           22




                                    20
                                                          0



                                  In
                                                                                                                              In




                                                                          Peak Hour Begins at 11:45 AM
                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                25




                                                                          AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES




                                                   13


                             39
                                                                                                                         JOHNSTON RD.




                            JOHNSTON RD.
                                                                                                         Left




                                                 Rght Thru
                                                                                                                3




                           Out
                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                       63




                                                                           Left Thru Rght U-TURNS
                                                                             14  890    6      0


                                                                             995     910    1905
                                                                            Out     In     Total
                                                                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                    Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                   13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                    Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                            Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                      File Name    : STATE HWY 4A
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                               Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                              Page No      :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                          STATE HWY 4A                                US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                 From North                                  From East                                       From South
            Start Time   Left              Thru   U-TURNS         Left              R-O-R             Rght    Thru         R-O-R             Rght    U-TURNS       Int. Total
          11:30 AM        0             125             0          5                  0                 1     197            3                 0           0          331
          11:45 AM        0             160             0          3                  0                 3     205            0                 0           0          371
              Total       0             285             0          8                  0                 4     402            3                 0           0          702

           12:00 PM       1             179             0          4                  0                 1     221            2                 0           0         408
           12:15 PM       0             161             0          0                  0                 1     163            4                 0           0         329
           12:30 PM       0             182             0          3                  0                 0     189            3                 0           0         377
           12:45 PM       1             157             0          1                  0                 0     142            1                 0           0         302
               Total      2             679             0          8                  0                 2     715           10                 0           0        1416

           01:00 PM        1            147             0           2                 0                  0    179            1                 0           0         330
           01:15 PM        0            158             0           3                 0                  0    146            1                 0           0         308
         Grand Total       3           1269             0         21                  0                  6   1442          15                  0           0        2756
          Apprch %       0.2           99.8             0        77.8                 0               22.2     99            1                 0           0
            Total %      0.1             46             0         0.8                 0                0.2    52.3         0.5                 0           0
                                                                                      Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                                     13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                                      Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                              Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                               File Name    : STATE HWY 4A
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                        Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                       Page No      :2


                                                       US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                             STATE HWY 4A                                US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                               From North                                  From East                                        From South
                      Start Time             Left            Thru      U-TURNS   App. Total     Left   R-O-R          Rght   App. Total   Thru   R-O-R           Rght    U-TURNS   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:45 AM
             11:45 AM              0         160                           0         160         3         0            3           6      205       0           0             0       205        371
              12:00 PM             1         179                           0         180         4         0            1           5      221       2           0             0       223        408
              12:15 PM             0         161                           0         161         0         0            1           1      163       4           0             0       167        329
              12:30 PM             0         182                           0         182         3         0            0           3      189       3           0             0       192        377
         Total Volume              1         682                           0         683        10         0            5          15      778       9           0             0       787       1485
         % App. Total            0.1        99.9                           0                  66.7         0         33.3                 98.9     1.1           0             0
                   PHF          .250        .937                        .000        .938      .625      .000         .417       .625      .880   .563         .000          .000      .882        .910
                                 Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                             13284 SW 120th Street
                                              Miami, Florida, 33186
                                      Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                  File Name    : STATE HWY 4A
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                        Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                           Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                          Page No      :3

                                               US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                               Out      In    Total
                                                 783     683    1466


                                                   682    1     0
                                                 Thru Left U-TURNS




                                             Peak Hour Data
                                                                                   Out
                                                                                     10




                                                        North
                                                                            Rght
                                                                               5
                                                                                           In




                                             Peak Hour Begins at 11:45 AM
                                                                                             15



                                                                            Left




                                             AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                                                                              10
                                                                                      STATE HWY 4A
                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                    25




                                                 Thru Rght U-TURNS
                                                   778    9     0


                                                 692     787    1479
                                               Out      In    Total
                                               US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                     Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                     13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                      Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                              Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                              File Name     : white marlin
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                    Site Code     : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                      Page No       :1

                                                                     Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                                 US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                                    US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                    WHITE MARLIN BLVD.
                                         From North                                              From South                            From West
            Start Time    Thru         R-O-R          Right      U-TURNS                 Left             Thru    U-TURNS   Left              R-O-R         Rght          Int. Total
           11:30 AM      136             0               2             0                9             177              0      2                  0            1               327
           11:45 AM      144             0               3             0                6             164              0      5                  0            5               327
               Total     280             0               5             0               15             341              0      7                  0            6               654

           12:00 PM      141             0               1             0                2             154              0     3                   0            6              307
           12:15 PM      140             0               3             0                5             128              0     1                   0            7              284
           12:30 PM      143             0               7             0                4             141              0     5                   0            7              307
           12:45 PM      138             0               6             0                3             129              0     3                   0            4              283
               Total     562             0              17             0               14             552              0    12                   0           24             1181

           01:00 PM       147            0               0             0                2              93              0      4                  0            5              251
           01:15 PM       143            0               2             0                2              93              0      3                  0            4              247
         Grand Total     1132            0             24              0              33             1079              0    26                   0          39              2333
          Apprch %       97.9            0             2.1             0                3              97              0    40                   0          60
             Total %     48.5            0               1             0              1.4            46.2              0    1.1                  0          1.7
                                                                                 Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                             13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                              Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                      Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                File Name     : white marlin
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                      Site Code     : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                         Start Date    : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                        Page No       :2


                                                        US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                             US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                         WHITE MARLIN BLVD.
                                                               From North                                         From South                                From West
                    Start Time          Thru          R-O-R        Right   U-TURNS   App. Total    Left         Thru     U-TURNS   App. Total    Left    R-O-R         Rght   App. Total    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:30 AM
             11:30 AM           136           0         2                       0         138        9        177            0          186        2        0            1           3         327
             11:45 AM           144           0         3                       0         147        6        164            0          170        5        0            5          10         327
             12:00 PM           141           0         1                       0         142        2        154            0          156        3        0            6           9         307
             12:15 PM           140           0         3                       0         143        5        128            0          133        1        0            7           8         284
        Total Volume            561           0         9                       0         570       22        623            0          645       11        0           19          30        1245
        % App. Total           98.4           0       1.6                       0                  3.4       96.6            0                  36.7        0         63.3
                  PHF          .974        .000      .750                    .000        .969     .611       .880         .000         .867     .550     .000         .679        .750         .952
                                                          Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                     13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                      Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                              Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                              File Name    : white marlin
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                    Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                       Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                      Page No      :3

                                                                      US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                                        Out     In     Total
                                                                         634     570    1204


                                                                              9  561      0
                                                                          Right Thru U-TURNS




                                                                     Peak Hour Data




                                              61
                                           Total
                                                                                 North




                                                     11


                                      30
                                                   Left




                                    In
                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 11:30 AM




                                                     19
                                                   Rght
                                                                      AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES




                              31
                            Out
                           WHITE MARLIN BLVD.
                                                                          Left Thru U-TURNS
                                                                            22  623      0


                                                                         580     645    1225
                                                                        Out     In     Total
                                                                      US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                   Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                   13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                    Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                            Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                          File Name    : sunset
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                   Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                  Page No      :1

                                                                  Groups Printed- AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                          US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                           SUNSET DRIVE                              US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                 From North                                  From East                                      From South
            Start Time   Left             Thru    U-TURNS          Left             R-O-R            Rght    Thru         R-O-R           Rght      U-TURNS        Int. Total
           11:30 AM       1            136             0            0                 0                2    186             0               1            0             326
           11:45 AM       2            147             0            0                 0                1    170             0               0            0             320
               Total      3            283             0            0                 0                3    356             0               1            0             646

           12:00 PM       0            147             0            0                 0                3    156             0               1            0            307
           12:15 PM       1            146             0            0                 0                4    133             0               1            0            285
           12:30 PM       2            148             0            1                 0                1    145             0               0            0            297
           12:45 PM       2            140             0            0                 0                2    132             0               0            0            276
               Total      5            581             0            1                 0               10    566             0               2            0           1165

           01:00 PM        2           150             0            0                 0                2      95            0               1            0            250
           01:15 PM        0           147             0            0                 0                2      95            0               0            0            244
         Grand Total     10           1161             0            1                 0              17     1112            0               4            0           2305
          Apprch %       0.9          99.1             0          5.6                 0             94.4    99.6            0             0.4            0
             Total %     0.4          50.4             0            0                 0              0.7    48.2            0             0.2            0
                                                                                 Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                                                                                13284 SW 120th Street
                                                                                                 Miami, Florida, 33186
                                                                                         Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                                File Name         : sunset
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                                                                                         Start Date        : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                                                                                        Page No           :2


                                                 US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY                              SUNSET DRIVE                              US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                                           From North                                  From East                                     From South
                    Start Time           Left            Thru     U-TURNS   App. Total     Left    R-O-R         Rght   App. Total   Thru   R-O-R         Rght   U-TURNS    App. Total        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:30 AM to 01:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:30 AM
             11:30 AM              1        136         0                        137         0        0            2           2      186      0           1          0          187             326
             11:45 AM              2        147         0                        149         0        0            1           1      170      0           0          0          170             320
             12:00 PM              0        147         0                        147         0        0            3           3      156      0           1          0          157             307
             12:15 PM              1        146         0                        147         0        0            4           4      133      0           1          0          134             285
        Total Volume               4        576         0                        580         0        0           10          10      645      0           3          0          648            1238
        % App. Total             0.7       99.3         0                                    0        0          100                 99.5      0         0.5          0
                  PHF          .500        .980      .000                       .973      .000     .000         .625        .625     .867   .000       .750        .000         .866             .949
                                 Crosroads Engineering Data, Inc.
                                            13284 SW 120th Street
                                             Miami, Florida, 33186
                                     Tel: 305-233-3997 Fax: 305-233-7720
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                                                                                    File Name    : sunset
JOB NO : 2010-032                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000000
PROJECT: ISLAMORADA WINN-DIXIE                                                                             Start Date   : 1/28/2010
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                            Page No      :3

                                             US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
                                               Out     In     Total
                                                655     580    1235


                                                  576       4     0
                                                 Thru   Left U-TURNS




                                            Peak Hour Data
                                                                                            Out
                                                                                       7




                                                        North
                                                                            Rght
                                                                              10
                                                                                            In




                                             Peak Hour Begins at 11:30 AM
                                                                                              10



                                                                            Left




                                             AUTOS/HVY VEHICLES
                                                                                   0
                                                                                       SUNSET DRIVE
                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                      17




                                                 Thru Rght U-TURNS
                                                  645    3      0


                                                576     648    1224
                                               Out     In     Total
                                             US1/ OVERSEAS HIGHWAY
FDOT SEASONAL &
GROWTH FACTORS
 2009 PEAK SEASON FACTOR CATEGORY REPORT - REPORT TYPE: ALL
CATEGORY: 9000 MONROE COUNTYWIDE
                                         MOCF: 0.92
WEEK          DATES               SF            PSCF
================================================================================
  1    01/01/2009 - 01/03/2009    1.02          1.11
  2    01/04/2009 - 01/10/2009    1.00          1.09
  3    01/11/2009 - 01/17/2009    0.98          1.07
  4    01/18/2009 - 01/24/2009    0.97          1.06
* 5    01/25/2009 - 01/31/2009    0.95          1.04
* 6    02/01/2009 - 02/07/2009    0.94          1.03
* 7    02/08/2009 - 02/14/2009    0.93          1.02
* 8    02/15/2009 - 02/21/2009    0.91          0.99
* 9    02/22/2009 - 02/28/2009    0.91          0.99
*10    03/01/2009 - 03/07/2009    0.90          0.98
*11    03/08/2009 - 03/14/2009    0.90          0.98
*12    03/15/2009 - 03/21/2009    0.89          0.97
*13    03/22/2009 - 03/28/2009    0.90          0.98
*14    03/29/2009 - 04/04/2009    0.90          0.98
*15    04/05/2009 - 04/11/2009    0.91          0.99
*16    04/12/2009 - 04/18/2009    0.92          1.01
*17    04/19/2009 - 04/25/2009    0.94          1.03
 18    04/26/2009 - 05/02/2009    0.96          1.05
 19    05/03/2009 - 05/09/2009    0.98          1.07
 20    05/10/2009 - 05/16/2009    1.00          1.09
 21    05/17/2009 - 05/23/2009    1.00          1.09
 22    05/24/2009 - 05/30/2009    1.01          1.10
 23    05/31/2009 - 06/06/2009    1.01          1.10
 24    06/07/2009 - 06/13/2009    1.02          1.11
 25    06/14/2009 - 06/20/2009    1.02          1.11
 26    06/21/2009 - 06/27/2009    1.01          1.10
 27    06/28/2009 - 07/04/2009    1.00          1.09
 28    07/05/2009 - 07/11/2009    1.00          1.09
 29    07/12/2009 - 07/18/2009    0.99          1.08
 30    07/19/2009 - 07/25/2009    1.00          1.09
 31    07/26/2009 - 08/01/2009    1.02          1.11
 32    08/02/2009 - 08/08/2009    1.03          1.13
 33    08/09/2009 - 08/15/2009    1.05          1.15
 34    08/16/2009 - 08/22/2009    1.07          1.17
 35    08/23/2009 - 08/29/2009    1.09          1.19
 36    08/30/2009 - 09/05/2009    1.11          1.21
 37    09/06/2009 - 09/12/2009    1.12          1.22
 38    09/13/2009 - 09/19/2009    1.14          1.25
 39    09/20/2009 - 09/26/2009    1.13          1.23
 40    09/27/2009 - 10/03/2009    1.12          1.22
 41    10/04/2009 - 10/10/2009    1.11          1.21
 42    10/11/2009 - 10/17/2009    1.10          1.20
 43    10/18/2009 - 10/24/2009    1.10          1.20
 44    10/25/2009 - 10/31/2009    1.09          1.19
 45    11/01/2009 - 11/07/2009    1.09          1.19
 46    11/08/2009 - 11/14/2009    1.08          1.18
 47    11/15/2009 - 11/21/2009    1.07          1.17
 48    11/22/2009 - 11/28/2009    1.06          1.16
 49    11/29/2009 - 12/05/2009    1.05          1.15
 50    12/06/2009 - 12/12/2009    1.04          1.14
 51    12/13/2009 - 12/19/2009    1.02          1.11
 52    12/20/2009 - 12/26/2009    1.00          1.09
 53    12/27/2009 - 12/31/2009    0.98          1.07
* PEAK SEASON
04-FEB-2010 18:42:27                        830UPD [1,0,0,1]   6_9000_PKSEASON.TXT
                                                                      Figure 2: U.S. 1 Historical Traffic Growth
                                                                                                       AADT


                            32,000


                            30,000


                            28,000

                                                                                                                              U. Matecumbe Rate of Growth
                            26,000
                                                                                                                              = 0.00% per year
                                                              Marathon Rate of Growth
                                                              = 0.00% per year
                            24,000




           AADT (veh/day)
                            22,000


                            20,000


                            18,000
                                                              Big Pine Rate of Growth
                                                              = 0.04% per year
                            16,000
                                 1993           1994   1995    1996      1997   1998     1999   2000   2001     2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007     2008   2009    2010
                                                                                                             Year

                                                              Big Pine                            Marathon                           U. Matecumbe

                                                              Big Pine Regression Line            Marathon Regression Line           U. Matecumbe Regression Line

        FILE:T:\2009\TTDS\APPENDICES\REGRE_09




2010 ­ U.S. 1 Arterial Travel Time and Delay Study                                                                                                                          Monroe County


                                                                                                                                                                            Page 10
INTERSECTION
  ANALYSES
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                       US 1 & CR 905
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                      2010 Existing Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: CR 905                                                  North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                         Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                   4             5                     6
                                              L                T                R                   L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               834               13                  3            933
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.94             0.94                0.89          0.89               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 887           13                   3            1048                0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --         --                  0              --                --
Median Type                                                                           Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     1          1                   1              1                 0
Configuration                                                       T          R                   L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                     6                                7
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00                0.81          1.00               0.81
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                   7              0                 8
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                   0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                           0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                            N
   Storage                                                          0                                            0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                   0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       3                       15
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 763                      338
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.04
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.14
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.7                      16.1
LOS                                                            A                        C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     16.1
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       10:43 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k6FEF.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                       US 1 & CR 905
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                      2012 Without Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: CR 905                                                  North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                         Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                   4             5                     6
                                              L                T                R                   L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               875               14                  3            979
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.94             0.94                0.89          0.89               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 930           14                   3            1100                0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --         --                  0             --                 --
Median Type                                                                           Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     1          1                   1              1                 0
Configuration                                                       T          R                   L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                     6                                7
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00                0.81          1.00               0.81
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                   7              0                 8
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                   0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                           0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                            N
   Storage                                                          0                                            0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                   0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       3                       15
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 735                      317
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.05
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.15
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.9                      16.9
LOS                                                            A                        C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     16.9
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       10:45 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kB6D2.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                       US 1 & CR 905
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                      2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: CR 905                                                  North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                         Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                   4             5                     6
                                              L                T                R                   L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               937               14                  3           1036
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.94             0.94                0.89          0.89               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 996           14                   3            1164                0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --         --                  0             --                 --
Median Type                                                                           Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     1          1                   1              1                 0
Configuration                                                       T          R                   L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                     6                                7
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00                0.81          1.00               0.81
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                   7              0                 8
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                   0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                           0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                            N
   Storage                                                          0                                            0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                   0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       3                       15
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 694                      290
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.05
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.16
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         10.2                     18.1
LOS                                                            B                        C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     18.1
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       10:47 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k50F3.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Blackwood Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2010 Existing Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Blackwood Drive                                         North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             5                1015               2                 19            866                 6
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.83               0.83             0.83              0.77           0.77               0.77
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              6                 1222           2                 24            1124                7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                     --                --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             6                      0            3                 3             0                   16
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.56                  0.56          0.56              0.68          0.68                0.68
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             10                  0             5                  4              0                23
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                                6                     24                       27                                15
C (m) (veh/h)                          625                    577                      330                               234
v/c                                    0.01                   0.04                     0.08                              0.06
95% queue length                       0.03                   0.13                     0.27                              0.20
Control Delay (s/veh)                  10.8                   11.5                     16.9                              21.4
LOS                                     B                      B                        C                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     16.9                             21.4
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:42 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k9EF6.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Blackwood Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 Without Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Blackwood Drive                                         North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             5                1066               2                 20            910                 6
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.83               0.83             0.83              0.77           0.77               0.77
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              6                 1284           2                 25            1181                7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             6                      0            3                 3             0                   17
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.56                  0.56          0.56              0.68          0.68                0.68
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             10                  0             5                  4              0                24
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                                6                     25                       28                                15
C (m) (veh/h)                          595                    546                      311                               218
v/c                                    0.01                   0.05                     0.09                              0.07
95% queue length                       0.03                   0.14                     0.29                              0.22
Control Delay (s/veh)                  11.1                   11.9                     17.7                              22.7
LOS                                     B                      B                        C                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     17.7                             22.7
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:35 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k5E24.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Blackwood Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Blackwood Drive                                         North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             5                1128               2                 20            967                 6
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.83               0.83             0.83              0.77           0.77               0.77
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              6                 1359           2                 25            1255                7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             6                      0            3                 3             0                   17
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.56                  0.56          0.56              0.68          0.68                0.68
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             10                  0             5                  4              0                24
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                                6                     25                       28                                15
C (m) (veh/h)                          558                    512                      289                               201
v/c                                    0.01                   0.05                     0.10                              0.07
95% queue length                       0.03                   0.15                     0.32                              0.24
Control Delay (s/veh)                  11.5                   12.4                     18.8                              24.3
LOS                                     B                      B                        C                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     18.8                             24.3
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:37 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kB07E.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Johnston Road
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2010 Exisitng Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Johnston Road                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             14                890               6                 32            979                 25
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.88               0.88             0.88              0.97           0.97               0.97
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           15                   1011           6                 32            1009               25
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                     --                --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             7                      0            13                3             0                   22
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.63                  0.63          0.63              0.69          0.69                0.69
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           11                    0            20                  4              0                31
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                               15                     32                       35                                31
C (m) (veh/h)                          680                    690                      433                               362
v/c                                    0.02                   0.05                     0.08                              0.09
95% queue length                       0.07                   0.15                     0.26                              0.28
Control Delay (s/veh)                  10.4                   10.5                     14.0                              15.9
LOS                                     B                      B                        B                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     14.0                             15.9
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      B                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:49 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k1A5D.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Johnston Road
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 Without Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Johnston Road                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             15                935               6                 33           1028                 26
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.88               0.88             0.88              0.97           0.97               0.97
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           17                   1062           6                 34            1059               26
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             7                      0            14                3             0                   23
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.63                  0.63          0.63              0.69          0.69                0.69
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           11                    0            22                  4              0                33
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                               17                     34                       37                                33
C (m) (veh/h)                          651                    660                      414                               348
v/c                                    0.03                   0.05                     0.09                              0.09
95% queue length                       0.08                   0.16                     0.29                              0.31
Control Delay (s/veh)                  10.7                   10.8                     14.5                              16.4
LOS                                     B                      B                        B                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     14.5                             16.4
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      B                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:51 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k276C.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Johnston Road
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Johnston Road                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2                3                 4              5                  6
                                            L                  T                R                 L              T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             15                997               6                 33           1085                 26
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.88               0.88             0.88              0.97           0.97               0.97
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           17                   1132           6                 34            1118               26
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --          --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         1                  1           0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                 L                             TR             L                                      TR
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                10            11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                             7                      0            14                3             0                   23
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.63                  0.63          0.63              0.69          0.69                0.69
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           11                    0            22                  4              0                33
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                  1             0                  0             1                  0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                      L                      LTR                               LTR
v (veh/h)                               17                     34                       37                                33
C (m) (veh/h)                          618                    621                      390                               327
v/c                                    0.03                   0.05                     0.09                              0.10
95% queue length                       0.08                   0.17                     0.31                              0.33
Control Delay (s/veh)                  11.0                   11.1                     15.2                              17.2
LOS                                     B                      B                        C                                 C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     15.2                             17.2
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      C                                C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    10:54 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k5F90.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                             Page 1 of 1



                                                   TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                               Site Information
 Analyst                      RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & Winn Dixie Driveway
 Agency/Co.                                                                Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period         Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Winn Dixie Driveway                                      North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                      Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                       1                   2             3                  4             5                     6
                                               L                   T             R                  L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                                   935            31                 57          1028
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                  0.90          0.90               0.90          0.90                1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                               0                1038           34                  63           1142                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                         0                    --        --            0                     --                 --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                     0
Lanes                                          0                     1        0             1                     1                  0
Configuration                                                                TR             L                     T
Upstream Signal                                                      0                                            0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                       7                  8             9                  10           11                   12
                                               L                  T             R                   L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                     35                                64
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00               0.90          1.00                0.90
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                               0                     0          0                  38               0               71
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                         0                    0           0                  0             0                   0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                           0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                            N
  Storage                                                           0                                            0
RT Channelized                                                                   0                                                   0
Lanes                                          0                     0          0                  0              0                  0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                     Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                                  1                      4         7               8             9     10           11              12
Lane Configuration                                              L                        LR
v (veh/h)                                                       63                       109
C (m) (veh/h)                                                  658                       390
v/c                                                            0.10                     0.28
95% queue length                                               0.32                     1.13
Control Delay (s/veh)                                          11.0                     17.8
LOS                                                             B                         C
Approach Delay (s/veh)                    --                     --                     17.8
Approach LOS                              --                     --                       C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/21/2011       12:20 PM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k23.tmp                                                                              2/21/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                              Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                       Intersection                        US 1 & Old Highway 4A
 Agency/Co.                                                                Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                       Analysis Year                       2010 Existing Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Old Highway 4A                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                      Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                           Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                 3                    4             5                     6
                                              L                T                 R                    L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               778                9                    1            682
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.88              0.88                 0.93          0.93               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 884              10                  1            733                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --           --                  0              --                --
Median Type                                                                             Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                     0
Lanes                                         0                     1           0                    1              1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                    L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                        Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8              9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T              R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       10                               5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00           1.00                 0.63          1.00               0.63
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0            0                  15              0                 7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0            0                   0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                              N
   Storage                                                          0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                   0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0            0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                                                        L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                      Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L          L                              R
v (veh/h)                                                       1         15                              7
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 767         269                         464
v/c                                                           0.00        0.06                        0.02
95% queue length                                              0.00        0.18                        0.05
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.7         19.2                        12.9
LOS                                                            A           C                           B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                       17.2
Approach LOS                             --                     --                        C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       10:58 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k6C45.tmp                                                                             2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                              Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                       Intersection                        US 1 & Old Highway 4A
 Agency/Co.                                                                Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                       Analysis Year                       2012 Witthout Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Old Highway 4A                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                      Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                           Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                 3                    4             5                     6
                                              L                T                 R                    L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               817                9                    1            716
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.88              0.88                 0.93          0.93               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 928              10                  1            769                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --           --                  0              --                --
Median Type                                                                             Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                     0
Lanes                                         0                     1           0                    1              1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                    L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                        Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8              9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T              R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       10                               5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00           1.00                 0.63          1.00               0.63
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0            0                  15              0                 7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0            0                   0              0                 0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                               N
   Storage                                                          0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                   0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0            0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                                                        L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                      Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L          L                              R
v (veh/h)                                                       1         15                              7
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 739         250                         444
v/c                                                           0.00        0.06                        0.02
95% queue length                                              0.00        0.19                        0.05
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.9         20.3                        13.2
LOS                                                            A           C                           B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                       18.1
Approach LOS                             --                     --                        C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       11:00 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k2EC.tmp                                                                               2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                              Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                       Intersection                        US 1 & Old Highway 4A
 Agency/Co.                                                                Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                       Analysis Year                       2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Old Highway 4A                                           North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                      Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                           Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                 3                    4             5                     6
                                              L                T                 R                    L             T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               848                9                    1            750
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.88              0.88                 0.93          0.93               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 963              10                  1            806                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --           --                  0             --                 --
Median Type                                                                             Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                     0
Lanes                                         0                     1           0                    1              1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                    L              T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                        Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8              9                   10           11                  12
                                              L                   T              R                    L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       10                               5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00           1.00                 0.63          1.00               0.63
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0            0                  15              0                 7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0            0                   0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                              N
   Storage                                                          0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                   0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     0            0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                                                        L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                      Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8                9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L          L                              R
v (veh/h)                                                       1         15                              7
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 717         235                         429
v/c                                                           0.00        0.06                        0.02
95% queue length                                              0.00        0.20                        0.05
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         10.0        21.4                        13.5
LOS                                                            B           C                           B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                       18.9
Approach LOS                             --                     --                        C
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.4            Generated: 2/17/2011       11:02 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kDFE6.tmp                                                                             2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & White Marlin Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2010 Existing Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: White Marlin Drive                                      North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2               3                   4             5                  6
                                            L                  T               R                   L             T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             22                623                                               561                 9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.97               0.97             1.00              1.00           0.87               0.87
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           22                   642            0                  0            644                10
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --         --             0                     --                --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                               0                                                     0
Lanes                                         1                  1          0              0                     1                 1
Configuration                                 L                  T                                               T                 R
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                 10           11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                  L            T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             11                                  19
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.75                  1.00          0.75              1.00           1.00               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           14                    0            25                  0              0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                   0            0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                               22                                                                                39
C (m) (veh/h)                          943                                                                               505
v/c                                    0.02                                                                              0.08
95% queue length                       0.07                                                                              0.25
Control Delay (s/veh)                  8.9                                                                               12.7
LOS                                     A                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                                                      12.7
Approach LOS                             --                     --                                                       B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    11:10 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kEC12.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & White Marlin Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 Without Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: White Marlin Drive                                      North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2               3                   4             5                  6
                                            L                  T               R                   L             T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             23                654                                               589                 9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.97               0.97             1.00              1.00           0.87               0.87
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           23                   674            0                  0            677                10
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --         --             0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                               0                                                     0
Lanes                                         1                  1          0              0                     1                 1
Configuration                                 L                  T                                               T                 R
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                 10           11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                  L            T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             11                                  20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.75                  1.00          0.75              1.00           1.00               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           14                    0            26                  0              0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                   0            0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                               23                                                                                40
C (m) (veh/h)                          916                                                                               488
v/c                                    0.03                                                                              0.08
95% queue length                       0.08                                                                              0.27
Control Delay (s/veh)                  9.0                                                                               13.0
LOS                                     A                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                                                      13.0
Approach LOS                             --                     --                                                       B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    11:13 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k79B4.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1 & White Marlin Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: White Marlin Drive                                      North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                    1                  2               3                   4             5                  6
                                            L                  T               R                   L             T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             23                685                                               623                 9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.97               0.97             1.00              1.00           0.87               0.87
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           23                   706            0                  0            716                10
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  --         --             0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                               0                                                     0
Lanes                                         1                  1          0              0                     1                 1
Configuration                                 L                  T                                               T                 R
Upstream Signal                                                  0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                    7                     8             9                 10           11                  12
                                            L                     T             R                  L            T                  R
Volume (veh/h)                             11                                  20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     0.75                  1.00          0.75              1.00           1.00               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                           14                    0            26                  0              0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                  0             0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                 0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                  N                                              N
   Storage                                                       0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                   0            0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11             12
Lane Configuration                       L                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                               23                                                                                40
C (m) (veh/h)                          886                                                                               469
v/c                                    0.03                                                                              0.09
95% queue length                       0.08                                                                              0.28
Control Delay (s/veh)                  9.2                                                                               13.4
LOS                                     A                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                                                      13.4
Approach LOS                             --                     --                                                       B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011    11:15 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2k2606.tmp                                                                           2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1& Sunset Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2010 Existing Conditions
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Sunset Drve                                             North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                 4              5                     6
                                              L                T                R                 L              T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               645               3                 4             576
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.92             0.92              0.96           0.96               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 701            3                  4            600                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --       --            0                     --                --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     1        0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                                               TR             L                     T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                            0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                 10            11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                   0                                 10
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00              0.67           1.00               0.67
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                  0              0                14
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                          0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                           N
   Storage                                                          0                                           0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                   LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       4                       14
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 903                      558
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.03
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.08
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.0                      11.6
LOS                                                            A                        B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     11.6
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011       11:16 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kA833.tmp                                                                          2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1& Sunset Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 Without Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Sunset Drve                                             North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                 4              5                     6
                                              L                T                R                 L              T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               677               3                 4             605
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.92             0.92              0.96           0.96               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 735            3                  4            630                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --       --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     1        0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                                               TR             L                     T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                            0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                 10            11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                   0                                 10
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00              0.67           1.00               0.67
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                  0              0                14
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                          0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                           N
   Storage                                                          0                                           0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                   LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       4                       14
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 877                      540
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.03
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.08
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.1                      11.8
LOS                                                            A                        B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     11.8
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011       11:18 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kE057.tmp                                                                          2/17/2011
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                     RPE/KTS                                      Intersection                      US 1& Sunset Drive
 Agency/Co.                                                               Jurisdiction
 Date Performed              2/17/11                                      Analysis Year                     2012 With Site
 Analysis Time Period        Midday Peak
Project Description Winn Dixie
East/West Street: Sunset Drve                                             North/South Street: US 1
Intersection Orientation: North-South                                     Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                              Northbound                                        Southbound
Movement                                      1                2                3                 4              5                     6
                                              L                T                R                 L              T                     R
Volume (veh/h)                                               708               3                 4             639
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00               0.92             0.92              0.96           0.96               1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                 769            3                  4            665                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     --       --            0                    --                 --
Median Type                                                               Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                    0
Lanes                                         0                     1        0             1                     1                 0
Configuration                                                               TR             L                     T
Upstream Signal                                                     0                                            0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8            9                 10            11                  12
                                              L                   T            R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                   0                                 10
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                     1.00                  1.00          1.00              0.67           1.00               0.67
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                              0                     0          0                  0              0                14
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                        0                     0          0                  0             0                  0
Percent Grade (%)                                                    0                                          0
Flared Approach                                                     N                                           N
   Storage                                                          0                                           0
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                   0
Lanes                                         0                     0          0                  0              0                 0
Configuration                                                                                                   LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                    Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1              4                              7             8               9     10          11               12
Lane Configuration                                              L                       LR
v (veh/h)                                                       4                       14
C (m) (veh/h)                                                 852                      522
v/c                                                           0.00                     0.03
95% queue length                                              0.01                     0.08
Control Delay (s/veh)                                         9.2                      12.1
LOS                                                            A                        B
Approach Delay (s/veh)                   --                     --                     12.1
Approach LOS                             --                     --                      B
Copyright © 2008 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                        HCS+TM Version 5.4           Generated: 2/17/2011       11:19 AM




file://C:\Users\Richard\AppData\Local\Temp\u2kF81F.tmp                                                                          2/17/2011
 20 MONROE COUNTY
LOS & CAPACITY TABLE
                                                                  2010 LEVEL OF SERVICE AND RESERVE CAPACITY

                                                                             ADJ.  ADJUSTED MEDIAN                                  2010                            2009
    SEGMENT                      LENGTH      FACILITY      POSTED SPEED      FOR     LOS C  TRAVEL   LOS   RESERVE   MAXIMUM RESERVE 5% ALLOCATION MAXIMUM RESERVE 5% ALLOCATION
                                  (miles)      TYPE        Limits Average   SIGNAL CRITERIA SPEED           SPEED        VOLUME            BELOW LOS C   VOLUME            BELOW LOS C
                                                           (mph)   (mph)    (mph)    (mph)   (mph)           (mph)        (trips)             (trips)     (trips)             (trips)


  1 Stock Island (4.0 - 5.0)       1.1      4-L/D         30/35/45   38.3    N/A     22.0    34.0    B      12.0         2,186                 N/A       2,222                 N/A
  2 Boca Chica (5.0- 9.0)          3.9      4-L/D         55/45      54.1    N/A     49.6    57.3    A       7.7         4,973                 N/A       4,585                 N/A
  3 Big Coppitt (9.0- 10.5)        1.5      2-L/U         45/55      48.3    N/A     43.8    43.8    D       0.0           0                  549           0                   0
  4 Saddlebunch (10.5- 16.5)       5.8      2-L/U         45/55      54.1    N/A     49.6    52.3    C       2.7         2,593                 N/A       2,689                 N/A
  5 Sugarloaf (16.5- 20.5)         4.0      2-L/U         45/55      52.1    N/A     47.6    48.0    C       0.4          265                  N/A          0                 1023
  6 Cudjoe (20.5- 23.0)            2.5      2-L/U         45/55      45.5    N/A     41.0    47.1    A       6.1         2,525                 N/A       2,484                 N/A
  7 Summerland (23.0- 25.0)        2.2      2-L/U         45         45.0    N/A     40.5    45.9    B       5.4         1,967                 N/A       1,530                 N/A
  8 Ramrod (25.0- 27.5)            2.3      2-L/U         45         45.0    N/A     40.5    45.4    B       4.9         1,866                 N/A       2,704                 N/A
  9 Torch (27.5- 29.5)             2.1      2-L/U         45         45.0    N/A     40.5    46.5    A       6.0         2,087                 N/A       2,573                 N/A
 10 Big Pine (29.5- 33.0)          3.4      2-L/U         45         45.0    3.5     37.0    39.7    C       2.7         1,520                 N/A        338                  N/A
 11 Bahia Honda (33.0- 40.0)       7.0      2-L/U (70%)   45/50/55   52.1    N/A     47.6                    6.2         7,187                 N/A       4,753                 N/A
                                                                                             53.8    A
                                            4-L/D (30%)
 12 7-Mile Bridge (40.0- 47.0)     6.8      2-L/U         55         55.0    N/A     50.5    53.8    B       3.3         3,716                 N/A       5,518                 N/A
 13 Marathon (47.0- 54.0)          7.3      2-L/U (13%)   35/45      42.2    N/A      22                    14.7         17,771                N/A       19,584                N/A
                                                                                             36.7    A
                                            4-L/D (87%)
 14 Grassy (54.0- 60.5)            6.4      2-L/U         45/55      54.4    N/A     49.9    47.2    D      -2.7           0                    0         424                  N/A
 15 Duck (60.5- 63.0)              2.7      2-L/U         55         55.0    N/A     50.5    54.0    B       3.5         1,565                 N/A        358                  N/A
 16 Long (63.0- 73.0)              9.9      2-L/U         55/45      53.5    N/A      49     53.1    B       4.1         6,722                 N/A       3,771                 N/A
 17 L Matecumbe (73.0- 77.5)       4.5      2-L/U         55         55.0    N/A     50.5    49.2    D      -1.3           0                  940         671                  N/A
 18 Tea Table (77.5- 79.5)         2.2      2-L/U         55/45      54.6    N/A     50.1    49.6    D      -0.5           0                  727           0                 322
 19 U Matecumbe (79.5- 84.0)       4.1      2-L/U         45         45.0    N/A     40.5    41.4    C       0.9          611                  N/A        204                  N/A
 20 Windley (84.0- 86.0)           1.9      2-L/U         45         45.0    9.1     31.4    45.6    A      14.2         4,468                 N/A       2,958                 N/A
 21 Plantation (86.0- 91.5)        5.8      2-L/U         45         45.0    2.2     38.3    41.3    B       3.0         2,881                 N/A       1,057                 N/A
 22 Tavernier (91.5- 99.5)         8.0      4-L/D         45/50      47.1    2.1     40.5    47.7    A       7.2         9,539                 N/A       10,201                N/A
 23 Key Largo (99.5- 106.0)        6.8      4-L/D         35/45      44.4    2.2     37.7    45.8    A       8.1         9,121                 N/A       9,459                 N/A
 24 Cross (106.0- 112.5)           6.2      2-L/U         35/45/55   48.2    N/A     43.7    50.7    A       7.0         7,187                 N/A       8,624                 N/A




    Overall                       108.4                                            45.0      46.9    C       1.9

File:T:\MonroeCounty\2010\2010TTDS\APPENDIX\10CPCITY
KEY LARGO WINN DIXIE
TRIP GENERATION DATA




         18
                                                                                                                  Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                            US-1 DAY 1 IN-OUT
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                      WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720                OVERSEAS HWY. MM 105.2
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                 Date Start: 04-Aug-10


   Start               04-Aug-10                IN                          OUT                        Combined
   Time                   Wed         A.M.           P.M.          A.M.           P.M.        A.M.                P.M.
            12:00                         0              6             0             12           0                        18
            12:15                         0             20             0             11           0                        31
            12:30                         0             24             0             12           0                        36
            12:45                         0             11             0             12           0                        23
            01:00                         1             14             1               5          2                        19
            01:15                         0             14             0             15           0                        29
            01:30                         0             16             0               7          0                        23
            01:45                         0              7             0             18           0                        25
            02:00                         0             15             0             11           0                        26
            02:15                         0             18             0             17           0                        35
            02:30                         0             12             0             15           0                        27
            02:45                         0             13             0             12           0                        25
            03:00                         0             13             0             15           0                        28
            03:15                         0             18             0               8          0                        26
            03:30                         0             12             0             12           0                        24
            03:45                         0             19             0             15           0                        34
            04:00                         0             21             0             21           0                        42
            04:15                         1             24             1             26           2                        50
            04:30                         0             21             0             24           0                        45
            04:45                         2             37             0             22           2                        59
            05:00                         0             25             1             15           1                        40
            05:15                         1             30             0             25           1                        55
            05:30                         0             15             0             20           0                        35
            05:45                         4             16             0             20           4                        36
            06:00                         5              9             0             16           5                        25
            06:15                         3             20             1             16           4                        36
            06:30                         0              9             1             19           1                        28
            06:45                         2             21             1             16           3                        37
            07:00                         7             12             2             18           9                        30
            07:15                         8             13             5             14          13                        27
            07:30                         8              9             1             15           9                        24
            07:45                        15              5             1             12          16                        17
            08:00                        11             14             8             14          19                        28
            08:15                        13              8             5             13          18                        21
            08:30                        11             13             6             13          17                        26
            08:45                         6              9             4             11          10                        20
            09:00                         6              9             5               4         11                        13
            09:15                         8              8             6             11          14                        19
            09:30                         8              5             5               9         13                        14
            09:45                         6              3             9               6         15                         9
            10:00                        18              1             9               1         27                         2
            10:15                        16              0             9               0         25                         0
            10:30                         5              2             8               3         13                         5
            10:45                        12              1             6               0         18                         1
            11:00                        14              0             8               0         22                         0
            11:15                        12              1             8               1         20                         2
            11:30                         3              0             9               0         12                         0
            11:45                         7              0             8               0         15                         0
             Total                      213            593           128            582         341                      1175
           Day Total                          806                          710                         1516
           % Total                    14.1%          39.1%          8.4%          38.4%

             Peak                     10:00          04:30         09:45          04:00        10:00                     04:30
              Vol.                       51            113            35             93           83                       199
            P.H.F.                    0.708          0.764         0.972          0.894        0.769                     0.843
                                                                                                                  Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                            US-1 DAY 2 IN-OUT
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                      WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720                OVERSEAS HWY. MM 105.2
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                 Date Start: 05-Aug-10


   Start               05-Aug-10                IN                          OUT                        Combined
   Time                   Thu         A.M.           P.M.          A.M.           P.M.        A.M.                P.M.
            12:00                         0             12             0             10           0                        22
            12:15                         0             15             0             11           0                        26
            12:30                         0             18             0             14           0                        32
            12:45                         0             11             0             12           0                        23
            01:00                         0               7            0               5          0                        12
            01:15                         1             20             1               9          2                        29
            01:30                         0             19             0               9          0                        28
            01:45                         0             19             0             16           0                        35
            02:00                         0             17             0               9          0                        26
            02:15                         1             13             0             16           1                        29
            02:30                         0             15             0             14           0                        29
            02:45                         0             19             0             10           0                        29
            03:00                         0             13             0             14           0                        27
            03:15                         0               9            0             13           0                        22
            03:30                         0             13             0             11           0                        24
            03:45                         0               8            0             10           0                        18
            04:00                         0             13             0             10           0                        23
            04:15                         0             13             0               7          0                        20
            04:30                         0             14             0             22           0                        36
            04:45                         0             21             0             18           0                        39
            05:00                         0             19             0             18           0                        37
            05:15                         2             17             0             22           2                        39
            05:30                         0             31             0             19           0                        50
            05:45                         3             13             0             23           3                        36
            06:00                         3             27             0             16           3                        43
            06:15                         1             21             1             18           2                        39
            06:30                         4             21             2             14           6                        35
            06:45                         4             10             2             18           6                        28
            07:00                         5             18             2             15           7                        33
            07:15                         9             16             7             12          16                        28
            07:30                         2             12             4             15           6                        27
            07:45                         7             11             3             14          10                        25
            08:00                        10             14             4             12          14                        26
            08:15                         5             11             6             15          11                        26
            08:30                         6             10             5             11          11                        21
            08:45                        10               5            7               6         17                        11
            09:00                         8             14            10               5         18                        19
            09:15                         8               8            7             12          15                        20
            09:30                         7               5            2               7          9                        12
            09:45                         9               1           10               4         19                         5
            10:00                        19               2            8               3         27                         5
            10:15                         8               3           14               3         22                         6
            10:30                         4               0            7               1         11                         1
            10:45                         9               0            8               1         17                         1
            11:00                        10               0            9               0         19                         0
            11:15                        10               0           11               0         21                         0
            11:30                         6               0            9               0         15                         0
            11:45                        17               0           12               0         29                         0
             Total                      188            578           151            524         339                      1102
           Day Total                          766                          675                         1441
           % Total                    13.0%          40.1%         10.5%          36.4%

             Peak                     09:15          05:30         11:00          05:00        11:00                     05:15
              Vol.                       43             92            41             82           84                       168
            P.H.F.                    0.566          0.742         0.732          0.891        0.724                     0.840
                                                                                                                      Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                     BLACKWATER DW IN-OUT DAY 1
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                         WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720                        BLACKWATER LANE
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                    Date Start: 04-Aug-10


   Start               04-Aug-10                IN                          OUT                            Combined
   Time                   Wed         A.M.           P.M.          A.M.           P.M.            A.M.                P.M.
            12:00                         0              4             0              7               0                         11
            12:15                         0              2             0              7               0                          9
            12:30                         0              2             0              2               0                          4
            12:45                         0              6             0              8               0                         14
            01:00                         0              6             0              5               0                         11
            01:15                         0              2             0              3               0                          5
            01:30                         0              2             0              3               0                          5
            01:45                         0              1             0              2               0                          3
            02:00                         0              6             0              4               0                         10
            02:15                         0              2             0              3               0                          5
            02:30                         0              2             0              5               0                          7
            02:45                         0              2             0              4               0                          6
            03:00                         0              2             0              2               0                          4
            03:15                         0              4             0              1               0                          5
            03:30                         0              3             0              5               0                          8
            03:45                         0              2             0              3               0                          5
            04:00                         0              2             0              5               0                          7
            04:15                         1              3             0              5               1                          8
            04:30                         0              5             0              4               0                          9
            04:45                         0              3             0              9               0                         12
            05:00                         0              5             1              9               1                         14
            05:15                         0              4             1              9               1                         13
            05:30                         0              6             0             11               0                         17
            05:45                         3              1             0              4               3                          5
            06:00                         0              2             0              8               0                         10
            06:15                         0              3             0              5               0                          8
            06:30                         0              3             0              8               0                         11
            06:45                         0              3             0              5               0                          8
            07:00                         1              2             0              4               1                          6
            07:15                         0              3             2              4               2                          7
            07:30                         1              3             0              4               1                          7
            07:45                         0              4             4              4               4                          8
            08:00                         3              2             0              7               3                          9
            08:15                         0              1             0              3               0                          4
            08:30                         0              0             5              3               5                          3
            08:45                         0              2             2              2               2                          4
            09:00                         1              2             1              2               2                          4
            09:15                         0              1             0              2               0                          3
            09:30                         3              0             3              2               6                          2
            09:45                         3              0             4              1               7                          1
            10:00                         7              0             4              2              11                          2
            10:15                         1              0             4              0               5                          0
            10:30                         2              1             3              1               5                          2
            10:45                         2              0             4              2               6                          2
            11:00                         7              0             2              0               9                          0
            11:15                         6              0             5              0              11                          0
            11:30                         3              0            12              1              15                          1
            11:45                         6              0             3              0               9                          0
             Total                       50            109            60            190             110                        299
           Day Total                          159                          250                             409
           % Total                    12.2%          26.7%         14.7%          46.5%

             Peak                     11:00          04:45         10:45          04:45            11:00                     04:45
              Vol.                       22             18            23             38               44                        56
            P.H.F.                    0.786          0.750         0.479          0.864            0.733                     0.824
                                                                                                                      Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                     BLACKWATER DW IN-OUT DAY 2
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                         WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720                        BLACKWATER LANE
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                    Date Start: 05-Aug-10


   Start               05-Aug-10                IN                          OUT                            Combined
   Time                   Thu         A.M.           P.M.          A.M.           P.M.            A.M.                P.M.
            12:00                         0              3             0              3               0                          6
            12:15                         0              2             0              4               0                          6
            12:30                         0              2             0              8               0                         10
            12:45                         0              1             0              1               0                          2
            01:00                         0              2             0              1               0                          3
            01:15                         0              4             0              9               0                         13
            01:30                         0              5             0              4               0                          9
            01:45                         0              7             0              6               0                         13
            02:00                         0              1             0              4               0                          5
            02:15                         0              2             1              3               1                          5
            02:30                         0              1             0              6               0                          7
            02:45                         0              5             0              0               0                          5
            03:00                         0              4             0              6               0                         10
            03:15                         0              2             0              4               0                          6
            03:30                         0              1             0              7               0                          8
            03:45                         0              4             0              2               0                          6
            04:00                         0              2             0              5               0                          7
            04:15                         0              5             0              7               0                         12
            04:30                         0              3             0              5               0                          8
            04:45                         0              4             0              9               0                         13
            05:00                         0              4             0              8               0                         12
            05:15                         0              3             1              5               1                          8
            05:30                         0              5             0              6               0                         11
            05:45                         1              3             1              9               2                         12
            06:00                         1              2             0              6               1                          8
            06:15                         0              2             0              9               0                         11
            06:30                         0              2             1              3               1                          5
            06:45                         1              0             0              4               1                          4
            07:00                         2              1             0              2               2                          3
            07:15                         1              6             4              8               5                         14
            07:30                         4              3             2              3               6                          6
            07:45                         1              2             1              6               2                          8
            08:00                         0              2             1              2               1                          4
            08:15                         2              1             3              1               5                          2
            08:30                         0              1             2              3               2                          4
            08:45                         0              0             1              3               1                          3
            09:00                         0              1             0              4               0                          5
            09:15                         3              1             1              6               4                          7
            09:30                         1              2             4              1               5                          3
            09:45                         3              0             1              0               4                          0
            10:00                         1              0             8              0               9                          0
            10:15                         3              0             3              0               6                          0
            10:30                         4              0             3              0               7                          0
            10:45                         5              0             3              0               8                          0
            11:00                         2              1             2              1               4                          2
            11:15                         3              0             3              0               6                          0
            11:30                         5              0             3              1               8                          1
            11:45                         3              0             5              0               8                          0
             Total                       46            102            54            185             100                        287
           Day Total                          148                          239                             387
           % Total                    11.9%          26.4%         14.0%          47.8%

             Peak                     10:45          01:00         10:00          05:30            10:00                     04:15
              Vol.                       15             18            17             30               30                        45
            P.H.F.                    0.750          0.643         0.531          0.833            0.833                     0.865
                                                                                                                       Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                                          US-1 DAY 1
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                        OVERSEAS HWY. NORTH OF
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720             WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @ MM 105.2
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                       Date Start: 04-Aug-10


   Start               04-Aug-10                  NB                           SB                           Combined
   Time                   Wed         A.M.             P.M.        A.M.             P.M.            A.M.               P.M.
            12:00                        25              263          23              230              48                   493
            12:15                        26              247          19              226              45                   473
            12:30                        14              251          20              247              34                   498
            12:45                        15              208          13              269              28                   477
            01:00                        11              212          16              182              27                   394
            01:15                        16              205          16              213              32                   418
            01:30                        13              216          13              267              26                   483
            01:45                        10              185            4             206              14                   391
            02:00                          6             200          11              195              17                   395
            02:15                          5             208          14              213              19                   421
            02:30                          7             175          12              223              19                   398
            02:45                        10              202          24              162              34                   364
            03:00                        10              201            8             222              18                   423
            03:15                          6             190          13              199              19                   389
            03:30                          7             232          20              220              27                   452
            03:45                          7             192          16              243              23                   435
            04:00                        14              196            9             214              23                   410
            04:15                        10              176          13              209              23                   385
            04:30                        23              201          18              212              41                   413
            04:45                        37              168          28              231              65                   399
            05:00                        29              262          15              210              44                   472
            05:15                        43              226          27              238              70                   464
            05:30                        57              224          46              190             103                   414
            05:45                        68              246          69              203             137                   449
            06:00                        74              140          66              186             140                   326
            06:15                        78              171         112              177             190                   348
            06:30                        51              178          89              126             140                   304
            06:45                        74              126         121              135             195                   261
            07:00                        69              118         136              120             205                   238
            07:15                       106               93         155              123             261                   216
            07:30                       153              101         192              112             345                   213
            07:45                       142              104         200              103             342                   207
            08:00                       128              105         184              101             312                   206
            08:15                       143              103         190               75             333                   178
            08:30                       152               96         251              103             403                   199
            08:45                       145               82         185               76             330                   158
            09:00                       146               86         144               82             290                   168
            09:15                       180               75         146               80             326                   155
            09:30                       118               69         168               71             286                   140
            09:45                       177               57         192               96             369                   153
            10:00                       229               71         180               51             409                   122
            10:15                       219               66         207               48             426                   114
            10:30                       260               53         230               70             490                   123
            10:45                       215               46         260               30             475                    76
            11:00                       188               41         213               55             401                    96
            11:15                       189               33         208               26             397                    59
            11:30                       224               37         249               30             473                    67
            11:45                       246               36         211               23             457                    59
             Total                     4175             7173        4756             7323            8931                 14496
           Day Total                           11348                        12079                           23427
           % Total                    17.8%            30.6%       20.3%            31.3%

             Peak                     10:00            12:00       10:45            12:00           10:00                     12:00
              Vol.                      923              969         930              972            1800                     1941
            P.H.F.                    0.888            0.921       0.894            0.903           0.918                     0.974
                                                                                                                       Page 1
                                   Crossroads Engineering Data, Inc.
CLIENT : FDA PROPERTIES                         13284 SW 120th Street                                          US-1 DAY 1
JOB NO: 2010-32                                  Miami, Florida, 33186                        OVERSEAS HWY. NORTH OF
PROJECT: WINN-DIXIE                      PH: 305-233-3997 FAX: 305-233-7720             WINN-DIXIE DRIVEWAY @ MM 105.2
COUNTY : MONROE                                                                                       Date Start: 04-Aug-10


   Start               04-Aug-10                  NB                           SB                           Combined
   Time                   Wed         A.M.             P.M.        A.M.             P.M.            A.M.               P.M.
            12:00                        25              263          23              230              48                   493
            12:15                        26              247          19              226              45                   473
            12:30                        14              251          20              247              34                   498
            12:45                        15              208          13              269              28                   477
            01:00                        11              212          16              182              27                   394
            01:15                        16              205          16              213              32                   418
            01:30                        13              216          13              267              26                   483
            01:45                        10              185            4             206              14                   391
            02:00                          6             200          11              195              17                   395
            02:15                          5             208          14              213              19                   421
            02:30                          7             175          12              223              19                   398
            02:45                        10              202          24              162              34                   364
            03:00                        10              201            8             222              18                   423
            03:15                          6             190          13              199              19                   389
            03:30                          7             232          20              220              27                   452
            03:45                          7             192          16              243              23                   435
            04:00                        14              196            9             214              23                   410
            04:15                        10              176          13              209              23                   385
            04:30                        23              201          18              212              41                   413
            04:45                        37              168          28              231              65                   399
            05:00                        29              262          15              210              44                   472
            05:15                        43              226          27              238              70                   464
            05:30                        57              224          46              190             103                   414
            05:45                        68              246          69              203             137                   449
            06:00                        74              140          66              186             140                   326
            06:15                        78              171         112              177             190                   348
            06:30                        51              178          89              126             140                   304
            06:45                        74              126         121              135             195                   261
            07:00                        69              118         136              120             205                   238
            07:15                       106               93         155              123             261                   216
            07:30                       153              101         192              112             345                   213
            07:45                       142              104         200              103             342                   207
            08:00                       128              105         184              101             312                   206
            08:15                       143              103         190               75             333                   178
            08:30                       152               96         251              103             403                   199
            08:45                       145               82         185               76             330                   158
            09:00                       146               86         144               82             290                   168
            09:15                       180               75         146               80             326                   155
            09:30                       118               69         168               71             286                   140
            09:45                       177               57         192               96             369                   153
            10:00                       229               71         180               51             409                   122
            10:15                       219               66         207               48             426                   114
            10:30                       260               53         230               70             490                   123
            10:45                       215               46         260               30             475                    76
            11:00                       188               41         213               55             401                    96
            11:15                       189               33         208               26             397                    59
            11:30                       224               37         249               30             473                    67
            11:45                       246               36         211               23             457                    59
             Total                     4175             7173        4756             7323            8931                 14496
           Day Total                           11348                        12079                           23427
           % Total                    17.8%            30.6%       20.3%            31.3%

             Peak                     10:00            12:00       10:45            12:00           10:00                     12:00
              Vol.                      923              969         930              972            1800                     1941
            P.H.F.                    0.888            0.921       0.894            0.903           0.918                     0.974
ITE TRIP GENERATION &
 ITE RESOURCE PAGES
Summary of Trip Generation Calculation
For 1.520 Th.Sq.Ft. GLA of Specialty Retail Center
August 16, 2010
____________________________________________________________________

                           Average   Standard   Adjustment Driveway
                              Rate Deviation        Factor    Volume
____________________________________________________________________

Avg. Weekday 2-Way Volume    44.32      15.52         1.00        67
7-9 AM Peak Hour Enter        0.00       0.00         1.00         0
7-9 AM Peak Hour Exit         0.00       0.00         1.00         0
7-9 AM Peak Hour Total        0.00       0.00         1.00         0
4-6 PM Peak Hour Enter        1.19       0.00         1.00         2
4-6 PM Peak Hour Exit         1.52       0.00         1.00         2
4-6 PM Peak Hour Total        2.71       1.83         1.00         4
AM Pk Hr, Generator, Enter    3.28       0.00         1.00         5
AM Pk Hr, Generator, Exit     3.56       0.00         1.00         5
AM Pk Hr, Generator, Total    6.84       3.55         1.00        10
PM Pk Hr, Generator, Enter    2.81       0.00         1.00         4
PM Pk Hr, Generator, Exit     2.21       0.00         1.00         3
PM Pk Hr, Generator, Total    5.02       2.31         1.00         8
Saturday 2-Way Volume        42.04      13.97         1.00        64
Saturday Peak Hour Enter      0.00       0.00         1.00         0
Saturday Peak Hour Exit       0.00       0.00         1.00         0
Saturday Peak Hour Total      0.00       0.00         1.00         0
Sunday 2-Way Volume          20.43      10.27         1.00        31
Sunday Peak Hour Enter        0.00       0.00         1.00         0
Sunday Peak Hour Exit         0.00       0.00         1.00         0
Sunday Peak Hour Total        0.00       0.00         1.00         0
____________________________________________________________________

  Note: A zero indicates no data available.
Source: Institute of Transportation Engineers
        Trip Generation, 8th Edition, 2008.

                  TRIP GENERATION BY MICROTRANS
Property Search -- Monroe County Property Appraiser                                                        Page 1 of 4




Ervin A. Higgs, CFA                                                                             office (305) 292-3420
Property Appraiser                                                                                 fax (305) 292-3501
Monroe County, Florida
The Monroe County Property Appraiser's Website will be do
 Property Record View
 Alternate Key: 8802226 Parcel ID: 00084260-000300


  Ownership Details
  Mailing Address:
  ISLAND PLAZA L.C
  PO BOX 402427
  MIAMI BEACH, FL 33140-0427


  Property Details
             PC Code:    14 - SUPERMARKETS
        Millage Group:   500K
   Affordable Housing:   No
    Section-Township-
                         01-61-39
                Range:
    Property Location:   105300 OVERSEAS HWY KEY LARGO
    Legal Description:   01 61 39 ISLAND OF KEY LARGO PART LOT 21 PB1-68 OR1179-1268/74C/T(CMS) OR1192-1349/51
                         (CW) OR1208-1956/59(CW) OR1811-594/97(CW)




    Show Parcel Map

  Land Details
                             Land Use Code                            Frontage          Depth        Land Area
                    100H - COMMERCIAL HIGHWAY                            0                0           4.52 AC




  Building Summary
             Number of Buildings:    1
  Number of Commercial Buildings:    1
               Total Living Area:    38099
                       Year Built:   1986



  Building 1 Details
           Building Type                         Condition   G              Quality Grade 350
            Effective Age 7                      Perimeter   1,058         Depreciation % 8
                Year Built 1986               Special Arch   0            Grnd Floor Area 38,099
          Functional Obs 0                   Economic Obs    0

  Inclusions:
                Roof Type                      Roof Cover                        Foundation




http://www.mcpafl.org/PropSearch.aspx                                                                           8/12/2010
Property Search -- Monroe County Property Appraiser                                                               Page 2 of 4



                  Heat 1                              Heat 2                          Bedrooms 0
               Heat Src 1                          Heat Src 2
  Extra Features:
                            2 Fix Bath     0                                                   Vacuum         0
                            3 Fix Bath     0                                          Garbage Disposal        0
                            4 Fix Bath     0                                                Compactor         0
                            5 Fix Bath     0                                                   Security       0
                            6 Fix Bath     0                                                  Intercom        0
                            7 Fix Bath     0                                                Fireplaces        0
                             Extra Fix     27                                              Dishwasher         0




  Sections:

   Nbr Type Ext Wall # Stories           Year Built Attic A/C Basement %   Finished Basement %       Area
    1     OPF                 1            2002                                                       582
    2     PTO                  1           2002                                                       654
    3     OPF                 1            2002                                                       582
    4     FLA                  1           2002                                                      37,139
    5     FLA                  1           2002                                                       280
    6     PTO                  1           2002                                                       290
    7     FLA                  1           2002                                                       680


  Interior Finish:

        Section Nbr          Interior Finish Nbr                Type         Area %      Sprinkler     A/C
                                                          SUPERMKT-D          100           N             Y
                                   16405                    COOLERS           100           N             N
                                   16406                    COOLERS           100           N             N


  Exterior Wall:




http://www.mcpafl.org/PropSearch.aspx                                                                              8/12/2010
Property Search -- Monroe County Property Appraiser                                                                            Page 3 of 4




                       Interior Finish Nbr                              Type                        Area %
                              5651                                     C.B.S.                        100




  Misc Improvement Details
   Nbr                 Type                     # Units       Length       Width       Year Built      Roll Year      Grade      Life
    1        AP2:ASPHALT PAVING               79,228 SF          0            0          1985              1986            2      25
    2              PT3:PATIO                   4,800 SF          0            0          1985              1986            2      50
    3        CF2:COMPACTED FILL                5,500 CY          0            0          1985              1986            1      99
    4         CL2:CH LINK FENCE                1,752 SF         292           6          1992              1993            1      30
    5         CL2:CH LINK FENCE                1,800 SF         300           6          1999              2000            1      30




  Appraiser Notes
   WINN DIXIE GROCERY STORE, MM105 BACK OF BUILDING DOES NOT TRAVERSE, SQUARED FOR COMPUTER. TPP
   8705956 - WINN DIXIE #0352 TPP 9009870 - CARDTRONICS (ATM @ WINN DIXIE) TPP 9036952 - TRM COPY CENTERS
   (USA) (LEASED EQ @ WINN DIXIE)




  Building Permits
   Bldg    Number          Date Issued       Date Completed          Amount        Description                    Notes
           07304256         03/06/2008         12/03/2008              1                                INTERIOR REMODEL
           2303705          08/20/2002         01/01/2003              1                                EXTERIOR PAINTING




  Parcel Value History
  Certified Roll Values.

  View Taxes for this Parcel.

   Roll   Total Bldg         Total Misc       Total Land        Total Just        Total Assessed    School    School Taxable
   Year     Value        Improvement Value      Value         (Market) Value           Value     Exempt Value     Value
   2009    3,229,104           114,989          813,600         2,939,262            2,939,262               0            2,939,262
   2008    2,842,619           115,944         1,762,800        3,200,000            3,200,000               0            3,200,000
   2007    1,881,042           116,490          501,720         3,709,651            3,709,651               0            3,709,651
   2006    1,881,042           117,451          501,720         2,500,213            2,500,213               0            2,500,213
   2005    1,925,302           118,386          501,720         2,545,408            2,545,408               0            2,545,408
   2004    1,925,298           119,348          501,720         2,546,366            2,546,366               0            2,546,366
   2003    1,925,298           120,309          501,720         2,547,327            2,547,327               0            2,547,327
   2002    1,651,725           121,243          593,184         2,366,152            2,366,152               0            2,366,152
   2001    1,651,725           122,206          551,476         2,325,407            2,325,407               0            2,325,407
   2000    1,806,860            66,312          361,973         2,235,145            2,235,145               0            2,235,145
   1999    1,505,717            68,378          361,973         1,936,068            1,936,068               0            1,936,068
   1998    1,404,908            72,155          425,850         1,902,913            1,902,913               0            1,902,913
   1997    1,404,908            75,948          425,850         1,906,706            1,906,706               0            1,906,706




http://www.mcpafl.org/PropSearch.aspx                                                                                           8/12/2010
Property Search -- Monroe County Property Appraiser                                                             Page 4 of 4



   1996    1,277,189         79,724                425,850   1,782,763         1,782,763           0       1,782,763
   1995    1,277,189         83,500                425,850   1,786,539         1,786,539           0       1,786,539
   1994    1,277,189         87,292                425,850   1,790,331         1,790,331           0       1,790,331
   1993    1,277,189         89,404                425,850   1,792,443         1,792,443           0       1,792,443
   1992    1,277,189         93,130                425,850   1,796,169         1,796,169           0       1,796,169




  Parcel Sales History
  NOTE: Sales do not generally show up in our computer system until about two to three months after the
  date of sale. If a recent sale does not show up in this list, please allow more time for the sale record to be
  processed. Thank you for your patience and understanding.

      Sale Date            Official Records Book/Page                Price            Instrument       Qualification
      8/21/2002                       1811 / 594                   2,280,000               WD               Q
      11/1/1991                   1192 / 1349                      1,950,000               WD               Q




                                       This page has been visited 216,109 times.

                                            Monroe County Property Appraiser
                                                  Ervin A. Higgs, CFA
                                                    P.O. Box 1176
                                               Key West, FL 33041-1176




http://www.mcpafl.org/PropSearch.aspx                                                                            8/12/2010
MONROE COUNTY
POPULATION DATA
Attachment J
                                                                                               Attachment K

After recording return to:
Cheryl Cioffari, AICP, LEED Green Associate
Planning and Development Services Dept.
Islamorada, Village of Islands
86800 Overseas Hwy
Islamorada FL 33036


                                         MAJOR CONDITIONAL USE MJ-13-01

                                                RESOLUTION NO.

                  A RESOLUTION OF THE VILLAGE COUNCIL OF ISLAMORADA,
                  VILLAGE OF ISLANDS, FLORIDA, CONSIDERING THE REQUEST BY
                  81001 OVERSEAS HIGHWAY, LLC FOR MAJOR CONDITIONAL USE
                  APPROVAL FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A 22,237 SQUARE FOOT
                  SUPERMARKET ON PROPERTY LOCATED AT 81001 HIGHWAY ON
                  UPPER MATECUMBE KEY, AS LEGALLY DESCRIBED IN EXHIBIT
                  "A;" WITHIN THE HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL (HC) ZONING
                  DISTRICT; PROVIDING FOR THE TRANSMITTAL OF THIS
                  RESOLUTION TO THE FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
                  OPPORTUNITY; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE


                  WHEREAS, Preferred Income Partners, LLC (collectively, the "Owner") is the owner of

         property located at 81001 Overseas Highway on Upper Matecumbe Key, with Real Estate

         Number 00397810-000000 and as legally described in Exhibit "A" (the "Property"); and

                  WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 30-696(d)(1) of the Code of Ordinances (the "Code")

         of Islamorada, Village of Islands, Florida (the "Village"), any permitted use greater than 5,000

         square feet except restaurants within the Highway Commercial (HC) Zoning District shall be

         reviewed as a Major Conditional Use; and

                  WHEREAS, 81001 Overseas Highway, LLC, as the contract purchaser of the 81001

         Property (the "Applicant), has applied to the Village for Major Conditional Use approval for the

         development of a supermarket and accessory uses and structures on the Property; and

                  WHEREAS, pursuant to Code Chapter 30, Article IV, Division 2, the Owner has applied

         for Major Conditional Use Approval (MJ-13-01) for the development of a 22,237-square-foot

         supermarket and accessory uses and structures (the "Request"); and
       WHEREAS, the Village Development Review Committee (the "DRC") reviewed the

Request on August 6, 2013 and recommended denial of the Request to the Director of Planning

and Development Services (the "Director"); and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Code, the Director in his

Council Communication dated February 13, 2014, recommended to the Village Council that the

Request be denied; and

       WHEREAS, the Village Council has considered the Request, the relevant support

materials, the DRC's and the Director's recommendations, public testimony and evidence given

at a properly advertised public hearing held on February 13, 2014 (the "hearing").

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL OF

ISLAMORADA, VILLAGE OF ISLANDS, FLORIDA, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.        Recitals. The above recitals are true, correct, and incorporated herein by

this reference.

       Section 2.        Findings of Fact. The Village Council, having considered the Request,

the relevant support materials, the DRC's and Director's recommendations, public testimony and

evidence given at the hearing, does hereby find and determine:

       1.         The Owner submitted the Request on June 20, 2013.

       2.         The Request consists of a Site Plan (Exhibit "B") depicting the Request's

configuration, layout and level of impacts.

       3.         The Property is located within the Mixed Use (MU) Future Land Use Map

(FLUM) category.

       4.         The Property is located within the Highway Commercial (HC) Zoning District.




                                              Page 2 of 7
         5.     The Request [complies/does not comply] with the standards of Code Section 30-

216(d) for considering conditional uses.

         6.     The Request [complies/does not comply] with the Concurrency Management and

other applicable requirements of Code Chapter 30, Land Development Regulations (the

"LDRs").

         7.     The Request [is/is not] consistent with the purposes, goals, objectives and policies

of the Village Comprehensive Plan, including standards for building and structural intensities

and densities, and intensities of use.

         Section 3.     Conclusions of Law. Based upon the above Findings of Fact, the Village

Council does hereby make the following Conclusions of Law:

         1.     The Request has been processed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the

Village Comprehensive Plan and LDRs, and [will/will not] be detrimental to the community as a

whole.

         2.     In rendering its decision as reflected in this Resolution, the Village Council has:

                (a)     Accorded procedural due process;

                (b)     Observed the essential requirements of the law; and

                (c)     Supported its decision by competent substantial evidence of record.

         3.     The Request is hereby [APPROVED/DENIED], subject to the conditions imposed

below.

         Section 4.     Conditions Imposed. Granting of the Request is subject to the following

conditions:

         1.     Pursuant to Section 166.033, Florida Statutes, all applicable state and federal

permits must be obtained before commencement of the development. Issuance of a development




                                              Page 3 of 7
permit by a municipality does not in any way create any right on the part of an applicant to

obtain a permit from a state or federal agency and does not create any liability on the part of the

municipality for issuance of the permit if the applicant fails to obtain requisite approvals or fulfill

the obligations imposed by a federal or state agency or undertakes actions that result in a

violation of state or federal law.

       2.

       Section 5.      Conflicting Provisions. In the event the conditions or time limitations

contained herein, and any conditions or time limitations of any subsequent development approval

granted by the Village, or the LDRs are in conflict, the more restrictive shall apply.

       Section 6.      Violation of Conditions. The Owner understands and acknowledges that

it must comply with all of the terms and conditions herein, and all other applicable requirements

of the Village or other governmental agencies before it may commence construction or operation

of any use authorized herein. In accordance with Code Section 30-224, this approval may be

revoked by the Village Council upon a determination that the Owner or its successor or designee

is in non-compliance with this Resolution or the Code. Failure to adhere to the terms and

conditions of approval contained herein is a violation of the Code and persons found violating

the conditions shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by the Code.

Section 7.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall not take effect until after (a) thirty (30) days

following the date it is filed with the Village Clerk, during which time the Request herein shall

be subject to appeal as provided in the Code; and (b) following the thirty (30) days, this

Resolution shall not be effective or acted upon by the Owner until forty-five (45) days following

the rendition to the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity (the "DEO"), pursuant to

Chapter 73C-44.003 of the Florida Administrative Code. During those forty-five (45) days, the




                                             Page 4 of 7
DEO may appeal this Resolution to the Florida Land and Water Adjudicatory Commission, and

that such an appeal stays the effectiveness of this instrument until the appeal is resolved by

agreement or order.

        Section 8.      Term. This Development Order shall become null and void, with no further

notice required by the Village, unless a complete building permit application for site preparation and

building construction is submitted to the Village Building Official within the time frame specified in

the Village's Land Development Regulations ("LDRs"). Commencement of development shall

occur within three (3) years of the date of this Development Order unless a time extension is granted

by the Director or the Village Council, pursuant to Section 30-225 of the Village's Code of

Ordinances. If the Development Order is appealed under the LDRs or by the DCA, the above time

limits shall be tolled until the appeals are resolved.

        The foregoing Resolution was offered by ______________, who moved for its adoption.

This motion was seconded by _________, and upon being put to a vote, the vote was as follows:


FINAL VOTE AT ADOPTION
VILLAGE COUNCIL OF ISLAMORADA, VILLAGE OF ISLANDS

Mayor Ted Blackburn                      ______
Vice Mayor Deb Gillis                    ______
Councilman Mike Forster                  ______
Councilman Ken Philipson
Councilman Dave Purdo                    ______


PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS ____ DAY OF ____, 2014.




                                               Page 5 of 7
                                                    TED BLACKBURN, MAYOR


ATTEST:



SYNTHIA LANKFORD, VILLAGE CLERK


APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY
FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF ISLAMORADA,
VILLAGE OF ISLANDS ONLY


____________________________________
ROGET V. BRYAN, VILLAGE ATTORNEY




This Resolution was filed in the Office of the Village Clerk on this ____ day of ____, 2014.




                                                    Synthia Lankford, Village Clerk




                                           Page 6 of 7
                                 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       A true and correct copy of the above and foregoing Resolution was furnished to the Owner,

via U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to 81001 Overseas Highway, LLC, 2903

Rigsby Lane, Safety Harbor, FL 34695, this ____ day of ____, 2014.



                                            Synthia Lankford, Village Clerk




                                          Page 7 of 7
                                                 Exhibit "A"

Legal Description for Parcel # 00397810-000000
Exhibit "B"
