    TRAFFIC CALMING
         STUDY

              FOR THE



      EDGEWOOD
    NEIGHBORHOOD
CRANSTON, RHODE ISLAND


            Prepared for:

           City of Cranston
           869 Park Avenue
          Cranston, RI 02910



             Prepared by:

     Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
            P.O. Box 6145
           85 Corliss Street
    Providence, Rhode Island 02940




            January 2010
                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION                                                                                                             PAGE
1.0 INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................1

2.0 EXISTING CONDITIONS ...........................................................................................3

3.0 FUTURE NO-BUILD CONDITIONS .......................................................................18

4.0 TRAFFIC CALMING ALTERNATIVES....................................................................21

5.0 RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS .....................................................................28

6.0 IMPACTS OF TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES ...................................................35

7.0 CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE .......................................................................40

8.0 CONCLUSION..........................................................................................................44

REFERENCES ................................................................................................................48

Appendices:

          A.   Traffic Count Data
          B.   Speed Study
          C.   Traffic Analysis
          D.   Crash Data

                                                      LIST OF FIGURES
Figure Number:

          1. Study Area
          2. 2009 Existing Traffic Volumes
          3. 2009 Existing Cut-Through Traffic Volumes
          4. 2014 No-Build Traffic Volumes
          5. 2014 No-Build Cut-Through Traffic Volumes
          6. Profile of Speed Table and Speed Hump
          7. Speed Lumps
          8. Median
          9. Driver Feedback Device
          10. Proposed Improvements, Berwick Lane & Sefton Drive
          11. Proposed Medians and Neckdowns, Narragansett Blvd.
          12. Proposed Intersection Improvement, Narragansett Blvd. at Norwood Ave.
          13. Traffic Diversion
          14. 2014 Build Traffic Volumes
          15. Proposed Intersection Improvement, Broad St. at Norwood Ave./Warwick Ave.
1.0 INTRODUCTION

        It has been identified by the City of Cranston that excessive traffic volumes and speeds

have been observed along local streets within the Edgewood neighborhood of the City. The

study area is comprised of approximately 175 acres of moderately dense residential development

consisting of mostly single family residences with a small percentage of multi-family residences.

The neighborhood is indicative of early 20th century configuration with roadways exemplifying a

grid layout pattern. The Edward S. Rhodes elementary school is also located within the study

area limits.



        Input from residents and local government representatives as well as field observations

suggest that the primary cause of the problem is through traffic using neighborhood streets to

bypass delays associated with the arterial roadway network. The City determined the need to

effectively quantify traffic speeds and volumes within the neighborhood and along the

surrounding arterial streets to establish the most practical and cost-effective solutions and to

measure the impacts of potential solutions on the surrounding arterial roadway network. In this

effort the City of Cranston has retained the services of Garofalo & Associates, Inc. to quantify

and evaluate traffic conditions.



        The objective of the this study is to analyze existing and future traffic operational

characteristics of the roadway network in the Edgewood neighborhood located within the eastern

portion of the city of Cranston, Rhode Island. This area is comprised of a series of 15 parallel

east-west residential streets that provide direct access between Broad Street and Narragansett

Boulevard which bound the eastern and western limits of the project. Norwood Avenue bounds

the project to the north and Ocean Avenue at the southern end (Figure 1). Primary traffic flow

                                               1
through this area consists of traffic originating from the western and southern areas of Cranston

and northern sections of Warwick primarily utilizing Broad Street and Park Avenue destined for

Providence in the morning and traffic leaving Providence destined for Cranston and Warwick in

the evening. Several local streets in this neighborhood presently experience a high volume of

cut-through vehicle trips at speeds in excess of their posted speeds. This report will identify

existing peak hour traffic volumes and speeds along arterials and selected local streets within the

study area and identify improvements targeted to reducing cut-through traffic volumes and

associated speeds on local streets. The study will also examine the effect of any resulting traffic

diversion to the arterial roadway network on the operation of the two signalized intersections in

the study area.




                                                2
2.0    EXISTING CONDITIONS


       The Edgewood neighborhood is located at the eastern edge of the City of Cranston on

Assessors Plats 2-2 and 2-3, bordering the City of Providence to the north, the City of Warwick

to the south, and Narragansett Bay to the east. The neighborhood is residential in character and

consists primarily of one- and two-family homes on one-eighth to one-half acre lots. This report

examines the core of this section of the City which mainly consists of the area bounded by

Norwood Avenue, Narragansett Boulevard, Broad Street and Ocean Avenue. To establish a

traffic baseline from which to derive a scenario where proposed impacts can be developed,

establishment of existing traffic conditions were obtained at key locations within the project area.



2.1    Arterial Roadway Characteristics

       The Rhode Island Statewide Planning Technical Paper Number 155, has classified the

roadways within the study area as follows.

                   Narragansett Boulevard, north of Norwood Avenue ­ Principal Urban Arterial

                   Narragansett Boulevard, south of Norwood Avenue ­ Urban Collector

                   Norwood Avenue ­ Principal Urban Arterial

                   Broad Street, north of Norwood Avenue ­ Principal Urban Arterial

                   Broad Street, south of Norwood Avenue ­ Minor Urban Arterial

                   Warwick Avenue ­ Principal Urban Arterial

                   Park Avenue ­ Minor Urban Arterial

                   Ocean Avenue ­ Urban Collector

All other study area roadways are classified as Local Roads.




                                                 3
       Narragansett Boulevard within the project limits is a two lane roadway with a paved

width of 50 feet north of Strathmore Road and 36 feet between Strathmore Road and Ocean

Avenue. This width is divided into two 12-foot travel lanes, with two 5-foot bicycle lanes and

two 8-foot parking lanes north of Strathmore Road and two 6-foot shoulders south of Strathmore

Road. The pavement structure within the study area is in fair to good condition. Concrete

curbing, concrete and bituminous sidewalks, drainage and street lighting exist on both sides of

Narragansett Boulevard.     All of these roadway elements are in fair to good condition.

Narragansett Boulevard is designated U.S. Route 1A north of Norwood Avenue and extends

north into Providence as Allens Avenue and provides a direct link from Edgewood to I-95 and

downtown Providence. U.S. Route 1A then follows Norwood Avenue west to Warwick Avenue,

then to Post Road.



       Norwood Avenue (U.S. Route 1A) within the project limits is a two lane arterial roadway

having a paved width of 60 feet. Although this width is sufficient to carry four 11-foot travel

lanes, two eastbound and two westbound, and two 8-foot parking lanes, travel lanes are

delineated by striping only along the westbound approach at the Broad Street intersection and the

eastbound approach at the Narragansett Boulevard intersection. The remainder of Norwood

Avenue therefore functions as a two-lane roadway. The pavement structure along Norwood

Avenue, defining the northern limits of the project area, is in fair to poor condition. Concrete

curbing, concrete sidewalks, drainage and street lighting exist on both sides of Norwood Avenue.

All of these roadway elements are in fair to poor condition. West of Broad Street, Norwood

Avenue continues as a local street with a 50 foot paved width. East of Narragansett Boulevard,

Norwood Avenue is a dead-end local street with a paved width of 40 feet.




                                               4
       Broad Street within the project limits is a two lane bituminous roadway having a paved

width of approximately 40 feet. This width is divided into two 12-foot travel lanes and two 8-

foot parking lanes. The pavement structure within the study area is in fair to good condition.

Concrete curbing, concrete sidewalks, drainage and street lighting exist on both sides of Broad

Street. All of these roadway elements are in fair to good condition. Broad Street extends north

into Providence, forming the border between the Elmwood neighborhood and South Providence,

terminating in downtown Providence. To the south, Broad Street extends into the Pawtuxet

neighborhood and into northeastern Warwick as Narragansett Parkway, providing connections

with Post Road and Warwick Avenue.



       Warwick Avenue (U.S. Route 1A/State Route 117) begins at the northwest corner of the

study area and extends southwest into the City of Warwick. In the vicinity of the study area,

Warwick Avenue is a two lane bituminous roadway having a paved width of 60 feet. This width

is divided into four 11-foot travel lanes, two northbound and two southbound, and two 3-foot

shoulders. The pavement structure of Warwick Avenue in the vicinity of the study area is in fair

to good condition. Concrete curbing, concrete sidewalks, drainage and street lighting exist on

both sides of Warwick Avenue. All of these roadway elements are in fair to good condition.



       Park Avenue (State Route 12) begins at Broad Street at the western edge of the study area

and extends west into the City of Cranston. In the vicinity of the study area, Park Avenue is a

two lane bituminous roadway having a paved width of 40 feet and is the primary east-west

corridor in the City of Cranston. This width is divided into two 12-foot travel lanes and two 8-

foot parking lanes. The pavement structure in the vicinity of the study area is in fair to good

condition. Concrete curbing, concrete sidewalks, drainage and street lighting exist on both sides

                                               5
of Park Avenue. All of these roadway elements are in fair to good condition. At its western

terminus with Broad Street, Park Avenue is offset from the intersection with Bluff Avenue by

approximately 100 feet.



       Local streets within the study area are typically two lane bituminous roadways having

paved widths of 30 to 36 feet with parking permitted on both sides. All streets carry bidirectional

traffic with no delineation of travel lanes or shoulders, with the exception of the block of Ocean

Avenue between Commercial Street and Narragansett Boulevard, which is posted as one way

eastbound between 7:00 AM and 1:00 PM Sundays. The pavement structure of local streets in

the study area is in fair to good condition. Concrete curbing, concrete sidewalks, drainage and

street lighting are provided on all local streets in the study area. All of these roadway elements

are in fair to good condition.



       Fourteen local streets in the study area provide east-west connectivity between Broad

Street and Narragansett Parkway:

               Arnold Avenue

               Albert Avenue

               Columbia Avenue

               Shaw Avenue

               Bluff Avenue

               Glen Avenue

               Massasoit Avenue

               Sefton Drive/Berwick Lane

               Strathmore Road

                                                6
               Chiswick Road

               Windsor Road

               Circuit Drive

               Ocean Avenue (except 7:00 AM to 1:00 PM Sundays)

Additionally, Pawtuxet Avenue provides north-south connectivity between Columbia Avenue in

the Edgewood neighborhood and Narragansett Street in the City of Providence, approximately

one-third of a mile north of the study area. This road bisects the local cross streets to its terminus

at Columbia Avenue. Using a combination of local streets, a vehicle could travel up to a mile

north into Providence via Pawtuxet Avenue.


       There are two signalized intersections within the limits of this study, both under the

jurisdiction of the City of Cranston. These intersections are:

                   Broad Street at Norwood Avenue and Warwick Avenue

                   Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue



       The Broad Street, Norwood Avenue, and Warwick Avenue intersection is a five-leg

intersection which is a major focal point of traffic in the Edgewood area. It is controlled by a

fully actuated uncoordinated signal under the jurisdiction of the City of Cranston. This signal

functions under an 80-second cycle length with three phases (Warwick Avenue eastbound, Broad

Street northbound/southbound, and Norwood Avenue eastbound/westbound). Pedestrian signals

are provided on all approaches, and pedestrians are permitted to cross concurrently with adjacent

traffic. Warwick Avenue and the east leg of Norwood Avenue combine to form the major east-

west traffic movement, while the west leg of Norwood Avenue is a local street with low traffic

volumes. The southbound Broad Street, westbound Norwood Avenue, and northeast-bound


                                                  7
Warwick Avenue approaches are two lanes, while the northbound Broad Street and eastbound

Norwood Avenue approaches are single lanes. There are no exclusive turning lanes on any

approach.



       The Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue intersection is a four-leg intersection

controlled by a fully actuated uncoordinated signal under the jurisdiction of the City of Cranston.

This signal functions under a 54-second cycle with two phases (Norwood Avenue

eastbound/westbound and Narragansett Boulevard northbound/southbound). Pedestrian signals

are provided on all approaches, and pedestrians are permitted to cross concurrently with adjacent

traffic. The Narragansett Boulevard approaches are a single lane plus a 5-foot bicycle lane; there

is also a 280-foot exclusive right turn lane (12 foot width) on the southbound approach. The

eastbound Norwood Avenue approach is two lanes with no exclusive turn lanes, while the

westbound approach is a single lane.



2.2    Existing Traffic Data

       Existing traffic flow characteristics were developed for the study area roadway network

utilizing manual turning movement counts. These turning movement counts were conducted at

the following intersections during the AM (7:00 to 8:00 AM) and PM (4:00 to 5:00 PM) peak

periods during March of 2009 and January 2010:

               Broad Street at Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue

               Broad Street at Columbia Avenue

               Broad Street at Shaw Avenue

               Broad Street at Park Avenue/Bluff Avenue

               Broad Street at Strathmore Road

                                                 8
              Broad Street at Chiswick Road

              Broad Street at Windsor Road

              Broad Street at Circuit Drive

              Broad Street at Ocean Avenue

              Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue

              Narragansett Boulevard at Columbia Avenue

              Narragansett Boulevard at Shaw Avenue

              Narragansett Boulevard at Bluff Avenue

              Narragansett Boulevard at Strathmore Road

              Narragansett Boulevard at Chiswick Road

              Narragansett Boulevard at Windsor Road

              Narragansett Boulevard at Circuit Drive

              Narragansett Boulevard at Ocean Avenue

The existing turning movement volumes at the two study area signalized intersections, Broad

Street at Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue and Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue,

are shown on Figure 2.



       Cut-through traffic volumes in the southbound direction were estimated by determining

and analyzing the southbound right turn volumes from Narragansett Boulevard to each local

street and the corresponding westbound left turn movement from each local street to Broad Street

during peak hours of operation. Similarly, northbound cut-through traffic volumes were

estimated from northbound right turn movements from Broad Street onto local streets and

eastbound left turn movements from local streets onto Narragansett Boulevard during the same

time periods. Cut-through traffic along local streets estimated by comparing upstream and

                                               9
downstream traffic volumes along Broad Street and Narragansett Boulevard. Based on the traffic

data and configuration of neighborhood streets relative to the "feeder" arterials, the overall

project was divided into two distinct zones. The dividing roadway between these zones was

determined to be Bluff Avenue, which bisects the Edgewood neighborhood into two relatively

equivalent areas which do not function together. The northern zone provides a convenient cut-

through for vehicles originating from Park Avenue during AM peak hours and returning during

PM peak hours, while the southern zone affords cut-throughs for vehicles originating from areas

along Broad Street south of the Park Avenue intersection.



        The cut-through traffic volumes through each zone are shown in Figure 3. Complete

count information can be found in Appendix A of this report.



2.3     Existing Traffic Speeds

        Spot speed studies were also performed within the Edgewood neighborhood proper to

establish the mean and 85th percentile speeds along selected east-west local streets in the study

area, as well as along the arterial roadways. The 85th percentile speed is the fundamental value in

the establishment of local and state traffic ordinances and the design of roadway geometrics.

Studies were performed along Norwood Avenue, Columbia Avenue, Shaw Avenue, Bluff

Avenue, Strathmore Road, Chiswick Road, Windsor Road, and Ocean Drive during off-peak

times to ensure free-flowing conditions. Speed studies were also performed along Broad Street

between Sefton Drive and Strathmore Road and along Narragansett Boulevard between Bluff

Avenue and Glen Avenue. The 50th percentile (S50), 85th percentile (S85), and Mean speeds for

each roadway are presented in Table 2.1. Details of the speed study are included in Appendix B

of this report.

                                                10
Table 2.1       Local and Arterial Roadway Speeds

                                                                              Observed Speed
         Roadway                     S50                S85       Mean            Range
    Norwood Avenue                35 mph            38 mph        35 mph         38-32 mph
    Columbia Avenue               29 mph            34 mph        30 mph         32-26 mph
       Shaw Avenue                25 mph            30 mph        26 mph         28-22 mph
       Bluff Avenue               27 mph            31 mph        28 mph         30-24 mph
     Strathmore Road              22 mph            27 mph        23 mph         24-18 mph
      Chiswick Road               24 mph            28 mph        25 mph         28-22 mph
      Windsor Road                24 mph            26 mph        25 mph         26-20 mph
      Ocean Avenue                24 mph            28 mph        25 mph         26-20 mph
       Broad Street               32 mph            36 mph        33 mph         34-28 mph
 Narragansett Boulevard           34 mph            38 mph        35 mph         35-28 mph

Note: The posted speed along each study area roadway is 25 mph.




        As shown in Table 2.1, 85th percentile speeds along each street exceed the speed limit of

25 mph, and speeds on the three northernmost local streets in the study area, Columbia Avenue,

Shaw Avenue, and Bluff Avenue, exceed 30 mph. In addition, although a detailed speed study

was not performed along Pawtuxet Avenue, field observations indicated that vehicle speeds

between Norwood Avenue and Columbia Avenue tended to be in excess of 35 miles per hour,

with vehicles routinely failing to observe stop signs.



        It should be noted that on several of the study area roadways, and predominantly along

the arterials and collector roadways, that the prima fascie speeds, or the maximum speed that is

reasonable and prudent based on geometric and traffic flow conditions, are much greater than the

posted speed limits. Due to the straight roadway alignments, relatively wide pavement widths,




                                                   11
and low traffic volumes during off-peak travel times, prima fascie speeds within the study area

can approach 40 mph without creating an adverse condition for the motorist.



2.4       Existing Conditions Arterial Street Capacity Analysis

          As discussed in the previous section, manual turning movement counts were collected at

selected study area intersections during the AM and PM peak hours. These counts were used to

evaluate existing conditions and project future traffic operations at the two signalized

intersections in the study area, Broad Street at Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue, and

Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue.



          A model was created using the Synchro® 6 traffic analysis software to determine

observable delay experienced by vehicles at each signalized intersection during the peak hours of

daily operation. This delay has been broken down into six "levels of service" (LOS). LOS for

signalized intersections is defined by the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) in terms of

control delay per vehicle for a 15-minute analysis period. Level of Service "A" describes

operations with very low delay, (i.e. less than 10.0 seconds per vehicle), while LOS "F"

describes operations with delay in excess of 80.0 seconds per vehicle. LOS "D" is generally

considered the minimum acceptable level of service and a benchmark for a typical urban

intersection. Queuing along each leg of the respective intersection was estimated using the

SimTraffic® 6 traffic microsimulation software, which utilizes a car-following model to simulate

and animate actual vehicle behavior. Detailed traffic analysis is provided in Appendix C of this

report.




                                                 12
       To develop a measure for analysis of additional progressive impacts resulting from traffic

diversions associated with recommended traffic calming measures, the existing operational

performance of the study area intersections was completed to determine base conditions. This

analysis was performed for the weekday AM and PM peak hour periods, which represents the

average peak use of the area roadways based upon the data developed for weekday traffic. Refer

to Figure 2 for existing peak hour traffic volumes. The results indicate that based upon the

existing geometric conditions and traffic volumes, these intersections operate at the levels of

service shown in Table 2.2.

Table 2.2     Arterial Capacity Analysis ­ 2009 Existing Conditions
                                                                         Weekday      Weekday
      Intersection                Roadway              Movement          AM LOS       PM LOS

Broad Street &                    Broad St.            Northbound             C           B
Norwood Avenue/
Warwick Avenue                                      Southbound ­ Lt/Th        B           B

                                                     Southbound ­ Rt          B           C

                               Norwood Ave.             Eastbound             C           B

                                                      Westbound - Lt          C           E

                                                    Westbound ­ Th/Rt         B           B

                                Warwick Ave.            Eastbound             B           C



Narragansett Boulevard        Narragansett Blvd.       Northbound             A           A
& Norwood Avenue
                                                    Southbound ­ Lt/Th        A           A

                                                     Southbound ­ Rt          A           A

                               Norwood Ave.           Eastbound - Lt          B           B

                                                    Eastbound ­ Th/Rt         A           A

                                                       Westbound              A           A




                                               13
       As shown in Table 2.2, the Norwood Avenue westbound left-turn movement at Broad

Street operates at LOS E, indicating moderate congestion, during the PM peak hour. All

movements at the two study area signalized intersections presently operate at acceptable LOS C

or better during the AM and PM peak hours.



2.5    Existing Crash Data

       Crash data for each intersection in the study area were obtained from the Cranston Police

Department for the years 2006 to 2008, the most recent three years available. A total of 116

crashes occurred within the study area during this period, including 56 at or near the signalized

intersections of Broad Street with Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue and Narragansett

Boulevard with Norwood Avenue, and 60 at 23 unsignalized intersections. 8 crashes resulted in

personal injury. No fatalities were reported in the data received. The crashes occurring in each

year, and the number of property damage only (PDO) and injury crashes at each location are

summarized in Table 2.3. Complete crash information, including types of crashes and lighting

and pavement conditions, are included as Appendix D of this report.




                                               14
Table 2.3           Intersection Crashes, 2006 to 2008
             Intersection1                  2006     2007     2008         PDO       Injury      Fatal   Total
Norwood Ave. & Broad St.                     12       20         14          42         4          0      46
Norwood Ave. & Narragansett Blvd.             2        5         3           9          1          0      10
Arnold Ave. & Broad St.                       0        1         0           1          0          0       1
Arnold Ave & Narragansett Blvd.               0        0         1           1          0          0       1
Albert Ave. & Broad St.                       2        0         2           4          0          0       4
Albert Ave. & Narragansett Blvd.              0        0         0           0          0          0       0
Columbia Ave. & Broad St.                     0        1         0           1          0          0       1
Columbia Ave. & Pawtuxet Ave.                 1        1         1           3          0          0       3
Shaw Ave. & Broad St.                         1        1         1           3          0          0       3
Shaw Ave. & Narragansett Blvd.                2        2         0           3          1          0       4
Marion Ave. & King Ave.                       0        1         2           3          0          0       3
Bluff Ave. & Broad St.                        1        3         0           4          0          0       4
Bluff Ave. & Narragansett Blvd.               1        0         1           2          0          0       2
Bluff Ave. & King Ave.                        0        0         1           1          0          0       1
Massasoit Ave. & Broad St.                    1        1         0           2          0          0       2
Sefton Dr. & Broad St.                        2        1         0           3          0          0       3
Sefton Dr. & Narragansett Blvd.               2        0         1           3          0          0       3
Chiswick Rd. & Broad St.                      0        0         1           1          0          0       1
Chiswick Rd. & Narragansett Blvd.             0        1         0           1          0          0       1
Circuit Dr. & Broad St.                       0        0         1           0          1          0       1
Circuit Dr. & Narragansett Blvd.              1        0         1           2          0          0       2
Ocean Ave. & Broad St.                        2        1         2           4          1          0       5
Ocean Ave. & Commercial St.                   2        1         0           3          0          0       3
Ocean Ave. & Narragansett Blvd.               2        2         2           6          0          0       6
Ocean Ave. & Fort Ave.2                       0        3         2           5          0          0       5
TOTALS                                       34       45         37         108         8          0      116

1
    Intersections where no crashes occurred within the three-year study period are not listed.
2
    Includes crashes that occurred in the Rhode Island Yacht Club parking lot.




                                                            15
       The intersection experiencing the most crashes was the signalized intersection of Broad

Street with Norwood Avenue and Warwick Avenue, with 46 crashes over the three-year study

period including 4 resulting in injuries. Rear end crashes were most common at this intersection,

with 15 crashes occurring during the study period. Other crashes occurring at this location were

11 sideswipe or angle crashes, 2 broadside or left turn crashes, 2 crashes involving pedestrians,

and 9 crashes involving parked vehicles or a fixed object.



       10 crashes occurred at the signalized intersection of Norwood Avenue with Narragansett

Boulevard, including 1 crash resulting in injuries. Rear end crashes were most common at this

intersection, with 4 crashes occurring during the study period.



       The intersection of Ocean Avenue with Narragansett Boulevard had the highest number

of crashes at unsignalized intersections in the study area, with 6 crashes occurring during the

three-year period. Fixed object crashes accounted for 4 of the 6 crashes, likely involving the

median located at the southern terminus of Narragansett Boulevard. Field observations have

indicated that motorists traveling southbound on Narragansett Boulevard approach the

intersection at excessive speed, including one vehicle reportedly traveling at an estimated 80

miles per hour, and may not anticipate the sight deflection to the right caused by the median. A

flashing light was recently installed at this location; however, supplemental crash data obtained

from the City of Cranston, included in Appendix D, indicate that four more fixed-object crashes

occurred between September 2009 and January 2010. Although no injuries were reported as a

result of crashes during the 2006 to 2008 study period, one crash included in the supplemental

data resulted in injury. In addition, the supplemental data indicate numerous incidents involving




                                                16
damage to private property, particularly the residence located at 92 Ocean Avenue, which has

been involved in five crashes between 1993 and 2009.



       At the remaining unsignalized intersections in the study area, 22 of the 54 crashes

involved a parked vehicle or fixed object. These crashes are typically the result of vehicles

backing out of residential driveways and striking parked vehicles or utility poles and are not

indicative of a general safety problem along the roadways or at the intersections.




                                                17
3.0 FUTURE NO-BUILD CONDITIONS


       To determine the future need for traffic calming measures in the Edgewood neighborhood

and the traffic impacts of the proposed measures on the arterial streets, a No-Build traffic

network model for a five-year horizon was developed. The No-Build scenario uses existing

parameters to establish a future baseline condition which can be used to make direct comparisons

with future proposed alternatives. No-Build traffic for the year 2014 was developed by applying

a growth factor of 1.0 percent per year to the 2009 Existing traffic volumes.



3.1    Transit Considerations

       The Rhode Island Public Transit Authority (RIPTA) plans to extend its Route #11 ­

Broad Street through the study area, from its southern terminus at Broad Street and Montgomery

Avenue in Providence to the Pawtuxet neighborhood in Warwick via Broad Street. Buses along

Route #11 will be equipped with traffic signal preemption devices, potentially extending the

northbound and southbound Broad Street phases of the signal at Norwood Avenue by up to five

seconds. For this study, it was assumed that Route #11 would run through the study area at its

current headway of 10 minutes, and as a conservative measure, the northbound/southbound

Broad Street phase of signal at Norwood Avenue was assumed to be extended by five seconds

for each bus trip through that intersection.



3.2    Future Development Projects

       As of the writing of this document, there is a proposal to redevelop the existing parcel at

the southeast corner of Broad Street and Norwood Avenue, currently Rite Aid pharmacy and

Rocky's Ace hardware store, into a similar retail use. This project remains in the planning stages


                                                18
and has not received approval from the City of Cranston; therefore, the projected traffic demand

generated by this project has not been included in this study.

3.3    Future No-Build Traffic Volumes and Arterial Street Capacity Analysis

       The anticipated 2014 No-Build peak hour traffic volumes at the two study area signalized

intersections are shown in Figure 4, with Figure 5 showing the projected 2014 No-Build cut-

through traffic. Synchro® traffic analysis results indicate that based upon the existing geometric

conditions and future traffic volumes, the signalized intersections operate at the levels of service

shown in Table 3.1. With the anticipated traffic growth, cut-through traffic would increase by

approximately 5.1 percent throughout the study area.

Table 3.1      Arterial Capacity Analysis ­ 2014 No-Build Conditions
                                                                            Weekday      Weekday
      Intersection                Roadway                Movement           AM LOS       PM LOS

Broad Street &                    Broad St.              Northbound             C            B
Norwood Avenue/
Warwick Avenue                                       Southbound ­ Lt/Th         B            B

                                                       Southbound ­ Rt          B            C

                               Norwood Ave.              Eastbound              C            C

                                                       Westbound - Lt           C            F

                                                     Westbound ­ Th/Rt          C            C

                               Warwick Ave.              Eastbound              B            C



Narragansett Boulevard       Narragansett Blvd.          Northbound             B            A
& Norwood Avenue
                                                     Southbound ­ Lt/Th         A            A

                                                       Southbound ­ Rt          A            A

                               Norwood Ave.            Eastbound - Lt           B            B

                                                     Eastbound ­ Th/Rt          A            A

                                                         Westbound              A            A


                                                19
       As shown in Table 3.1, levels of service at the two study area signalized intersections

would remain largely unchanged during the AM peak hour, with the Norwood Avenue

westbound shared through/right-turn movement at Broad Street degrading from an existing LOS

B to LOS C.



       During the PM peak hour, the Norwood Avenue westbound left-turn movement would

degrade from an existing LOS E to LOS F, indicating a capacity constraint for that movement.

Traffic simulation modeling using SimTraffic® shows that westbound queues along Norwood

Avenue would extend to the Pawtuxet Avenue intersection (approximately 1,200 feet). The

Norwood Avenue eastbound approach and westbound shared through/right-turn movement

would each degrade from an existing LOS B to LOS C in the future No-Build condition.



       At the intersection of Narragansett Boulevard with Norwood Avenue, levels of service

for all movements would remain unchanged from existing conditions in both peak hours.




                                             20
4.0 TRAFFIC CALMING ALTERNATIVES


       The objective of this study is to identify appropriate traffic calming measures to address

identified traffic issues in the Edgewood neighborhood. Based on the existing and future traffic

conditions described above, the following criteria were identified for improvements:

           Speeds on local streets

           Traffic volumes on local streets

           Speeds on arterials

To accomplish this, a variety of mitigating measures were examined to impede or deter the above

stated issues. These mitigating measures or traffic calming tools will determine appropriate

measures to reduce vehicle speeds and traffic volumes in the Edgewood neighborhood.

Definitions and case studies published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Traffic

Calming Primer (January, 1998) and Traffic Calming State of the Practice (January, 1999) were

used extensively to measure the effectiveness of potential traffic calming measures.



           ITE's Traffic Calming State of the Practice divides traffic calming measures into two

basic groups: volume control measures and speed control measures. Although reduction of

traffic volumes on local streets in the Edgewood neighborhood is a goal of this study, volume

reducing measures typically result in out of direction travel or displacement for residents along

the streets where they are implemented. Furthermore, case studies demonstrate that speed control

measures on local streets have the residual effect of reducing traffic volumes by as much as 58

percent1. Therefore, this study will focus on speed control measures.




1
    Reid Ewing, Traffic Calming State of the Practice (Institute of Transportation Engineers, August 1999), 18.

                                                           21
          Physical speed control measures can be further classified as vertical measures, horizontal

measures, and narrowings2. To facilitate speed control on residential streets, vertical measures

have been proven to be most effective. Vertical measures alter the profile of the roadway and use

forces of vertical acceleration to lower vehicle speeds. Horizontal measures deflect a vehicle's

travel path and use forces of angular acceleration to reduce speeds. These measures are best

suited to roadways where the horizontal alignment can be altered sufficiently enough to force a

reduction in traffic, which can be achieved by altering the traveled roadway width through

narrowings. Narrowings reduce speeds by causing the driver to perceive a reduction in width of

the traveled way. In addition to these physical measures, driver feedback devices may be used to

discourage speeding without constructing roadway alterations. This alternative is best applied in

the vicinity of schools and along minor arterials and collector roadways. Examples of each of

these measures are given in the following sections.



4.1       Vertical Traffic Calming Measures

Speed Bumps are rounded raised pavement areas placed across a roadway. They are typically 6

feet or less in length and 3 to 4 inches high. While speed bumps require greatly reduced speed to

pass over them, the greatest driver discomfort is experienced at the lowest speeds, and the

vehicle's suspension absorbs most of the impact. Speed bumps also can cause damage to a

vehicle's suspension or cause loss of control at higher speeds, and they require emergency

vehicles to slow down along with through traffic. Therefore, speed bumps were not considered as

a viable alternative for traffic calming in the Edgewood neighborhood.




2
    Ewing, 31.

                                                 22
Speed Humps, like speed bumps, are rounded raised areas of pavement, 3 to 4 inches high,

placed across the entire width of a roadway. However, they are typically 12 feet or greater in

length, their longer slopes allowing for higher speeds (typically 15 to 20 miles per hour) and less

disturbance to the vehicle's occupants. Speed humps can have sinusoidal, circular, or parabolic

profiles; the parabolic profile is recommended by ITE2. Although they allow for greater speeds

than speed bumps, speed humps still create a rough ride for vehicle occupants and require

emergency vehicles to slow down.



Speed Tables are a variant of speed humps with a modified profile. Speed tables are typically 22

feet long, with a 10 foot long flat field of pavement raised 3 to 4 inches above the roadway

surface and 6 foot ramps on either side.
                                                   Figure 6
                                                   Profile of Speed Table and Speed Hump
Because the ramps tend to be more gently

sloped than a speed hump, speed tables allow

for greater speeds (typically 25 to 30 miles per

hour)3. In addition, the flat pavement area is
                                                     Source: Reid Ewing, Traffic Calming State of the Practice (ITE,
suitable for aesthetic treatment with stamped or             August 1999), Figure 3.12 (p. 32).


textured pavement and serves well as a raised crosswalk in areas with high pedestrian conflicts.

Figure 6 illustrated the difference in profile between speed humps and speed tables.




3
    Ewing, 32.

                                                23
Speed Lumps, illustrated in Figure 7, are another variant of speed humps with wheel cutouts

about the centerline of the roadway designed to allow emergency vehicles to pass through with

                                                                              minimal     slowing    or     rocking.
    Figure 7
    Speed Lumps
                                                                              Smaller     vehicles    and      large

                                                                              vehicles that stay in their travel

                                                                              lane pass over at least one set of

                                                                              wheels up while passing over the

                                                                              outside    lumps4.     Additionally,

                                                                              while speed humps and speed

    Source: Traffic Engineering Handbook (ITE, 2009), Figure 15-15 (p.546).
                                                                              tables give the driver a rising and

lowering sensation, speed lumps result in a side-to-side motion that is more comfortable for a

vehicle's occupants. Speed lumps are not generally well-suited to colder climates due to the

difficulty in removing snow from the wheel cutouts.



4.2          Horizontal Traffic Calming Measures

Chicanes are curb extensions that alternate from one side of the street to the other, forming S-

shaped curves5. Chicanes reduce speeds by deflecting a vehicle's travel path. Because the curb

extensions necessary to construct chicanes would impact roadway width and access to residential

driveways, they were not considered for implementation in the Edgewood neighborhood due to

the density of residential properties and use of on-street parking.



Lateral Shifts are curb extensions on otherwise straight streets that cause travel lanes to bend one

way and then bend back the other way to the original direction of travel. They typically allow for

4
    Traffic Engineering Handbook, 6th Ed. (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 2009), 544
5
    Ewing, 38.

                                                                     24
higher speeds than chicanes and have successfully been implemented along collectors and minor

arterials6. Like chicanes, lateral shifts were not considered for the Edgewood neighborhood due

to the effect of curb extensions on on-street parking and driveway access.



Roundabouts are circular intersections, typically 100 feet or greater in diameter, at which

entering traffic must wait for a gap in the traffic flow before entering the intersection. Traffic

must also deflect from a straight travel path to avoid the splitter island on the approach and the

circle in the center7. Advantages to roundabouts over conventional signalized intersections

include fewer conflict points for pedestrians, an increase in capacity of up to 30 percent,

reduction in average delay per vehicle, reduction in maintenance costs due to elimination of

signal equipment, and improved aesthetics through landscaping of the center island. As a traffic

calming measure, speeds are reduced by the deflection of the travel path entering the roundabout

and the requirement to yield to traffic in the roundabout. Because roundabouts limit vehicle

speeds while increasing capacity and reducing delay, they are appropriate traffic calming

measures for arterials.



Traffic Circles are smaller versions of roundabouts, where a circular island is placed in the center

of a conventional unsignalized intersection. Traffic circulates about the center island as in a

roundabout, but the diameter of the circle is much smaller and there is no deflection on the

approach roadways. Speeds are limited by deflection of traffic within the intersection as it

negotiates around the center island. While roundabouts are generally used as traffic calming

measures on arterials, traffic circles are appropriate along collectors and local streets.



6
    Ewing, 39.
7
    Ewing, 178

                                                  25
Realigned Intersections are changes in alignment that convert T-intersections with straight

approaches into curving streets that meet at right angles. The "straight through" movement along

the top of the T becomes a turning movement, forcing through vehicles to slow down or stop to

continue8.



4.3     Narrowing Traffic Calming Measures

Neckdowns are curb extensions at intersections that reduce roadway width curb to curb. Their

effect on vehicle speeds is limited by the absence of pronounced vertical or horizontal deflection.

Instead, their primary purpose is to "pedestrianize" intersections by shortening crossing distances

for pedestrians and drawing attention to pedestrians via raised peninsulas9. Neckdowns generally

require shorter curb extensions than chicanes and lateral shifts and have less impact to on-street

parking and access to driveways.



Medians are raised islands in the center of a roadway that reduce the width of the roadway at

those locations. They may also be used to Figure 8
                                                     Median
introduce slight deflections to deflection into

travel paths on otherwise straight streets10.

Medians can readily be used in conjunction with

chicanes or curb extensions to further narrow the

travel path. Figure 8 shows a typical median

installation in San Jose, California.
                                                     Source: Reid Ewing, Traffic Calming State of the Practice (ITE,
                                                             August 1999), Figure 5.17 (p. 102).




8
  Ewing, 38-39.
9
  Ewing, 39.
10
   Traffic Engineering Handbook, 550.

                                                26
4.4        Non-Physical Speed Control Measures

Driver Feedback Devices use radar to determine a drivers' speed and then display the current

speed on a board for the driver to view. The intent of the signs is to have drivers adjust their

speed as necessary simply by increasing awareness. These signs can also be equipped to record

traffic volume and speed data, which can then be used to evaluate the effectiveness of traffic

calming measures.11 A typical drive feedback device in Phoenix, Arizona is shown in Figure 9.



Figure 9
Driver Feedback Device




Source: Parsons Brinckerhoff, Improving the
        Pedestrian Environment through
        Innovative Transportation Design (ITE,
        2005),p.8.




11
     City of Denver, (June 6, 2007), "New Interactive "Driver Feedback" Signs Installed at three Denver locations"
     <http://www.denvergov.org/NewInteractiveDriverFeedbackSigns/tabid/427049/Default.aspx >


                                                          27
5.0      RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS


         As discussed above, the focus of implemented traffic calming measures is to deter the

following characteristics:

         Excessive speeds on local streets

         Excessive traffic volumes on local streets

         Excessive speeds on arterials and collectors

Each of the traffic calming alternatives considered was evaluated for its effectiveness in

obtaining these objectives within the constraints of the existing roadway geometrics and traffic

patterns.


5.1      Reducing Speeds on Local Streets

         Of the alternatives described previously, speed humps, traffic circles, and medians were

selected as the most appropriate measures to apply in the Edgewood neighborhood, depending on

the characteristics of each individual roadway.         Various types of vertical deflection were

evaluated against roadway constraints and characteristics. Through coordination with the City of

Cranston it was decided that speed humps with a 3 inch vertical deflection would be used along

local streets. These humps will also be accompanied by roadway neckdowns at key intersections.

These neckdowns will also be used at midblock areas where crosswalks are evident.



         Speed humps would be placed approximately every 400 to 450 feet across each local

street from Arnold Avenue to Ocean Avenue, except Marion Avenue, Berwick Lane and Sefton

Drive. The number of speed humps on each street would vary based on the length of the

roadway. Four speed humps would be placed along Arnold Avenue, Albert Avenue, and

Columbia Avenue, with one between Broad Street and Pawtuxet Avenue and one pair between

                                                 28
Pawtuxet Avenue and Narragansett Boulevard. Similarly, three speed humps would be placed

equidistantly along Shaw Avenue and Bluff Avenue. Along Glen Avenue, Massasoit Avenue,

Strathmore Road, and Ocean Avenue, two speed humps could be placed equidistantly between

Broad Street and Narragansett Boulevard. With the implementation of these measures, the 85th

percentile speed along these streets would be reduced to approximately 20 to 25 mph.



       Although a speed study was not conducted along Pawtuxet Avenue, field observations

indicated that travel speeds between Norwood Avenue and Columbia Avenue were excessive,

and vehicles routinely failed to stop at stop signs. To reduce speeds along Pawtuxet Avenue,

speed humps would be constructed between Grand Avenue and Norwood Avenue and between

Arnold Avenue and Albert Avenue.



       The intersection of Sefton Drive and Berwick Lane would be realigned to discourage

through movements. Presently, Sefton Drive is a continuous east-west street between Broad

Street and Narragansett Boulevard. Berwick Lane runs northwest-southeast between Broad

Street at Sefton Drive, terminating approximately halfway between Broad Street and

Narragansett Boulevard. At the intersection with Sefton Drive, the northwest-bound lane and

southeast-bound lane of Berwick Lane are separated by a circular traffic island. The proposed

realignment would consist of constructing a curb extension along the south side of Sefton Drive

in the intersection area to shift the east and west approaches to the north and replacing the

existing traffic island with a smaller traffic circle. This improvement would reduce travel speeds

by forcing all traffic at the intersection to make a turning movement. The existing and proposed

conditions at Sefton Drive and Berwick Lane are shown in Figure 10.




                                               29
5.2        Reducing Traffic Volumes on Local Streets

           As previously stated, traffic calming measures geared mainly to reducing traffic volumes

were not considered for implementation in the Edgewood neighborhood, since the primarily goal

was the reduction of travel speeds on local streets. While volume reduction measures typically

have little impact on vehicle speeds, case studies have demonstrated that speed reduction

measures have the added benefit of reducing traffic volumes by up to 58 percent12. Therefore, the

speed reduction measures described in the previous section will potentially reduce traffic

volumes on Edgewood's local streets. Traffic calming measures must be implemented on each

east-west through street in the neighborhood, or cut-through traffic will instead divert to those

local streets that are not calmed, resulting in a significant increase of cut-through traffic on those

streets without measures. Redistribution of traffic resulting from the implementation of these

traffic calming measures are discussed in Section 6.0, Impacts of Traffic Calming Measures.



           As discussed in Section 2.0, Existing Conditions, the Edgewood neighborhood was

divided into two distinct zones for the purpose of this study, with the dividing roadway between

these zones at Bluff Avenue. The northern zone provides a convenient cut-through for vehicles

originating from Park Avenue during AM peak hours and returning during PM peak hours, while

the southern zone affords cut-throughs for vehicles originating from areas along Broad Street

south of the Park Avenue intersection. These two zones have been chosen to represent two

phases for implementation of the recommended improvements.




12
     Traffic Calming State of the Practice (Institute of Transportation Engineers, 1999), Table 3.2, p.18

                                                            30
5.3    Reducing Speeds on Narragansett Boulevard

       Narragansett Boulevard changes functional classification upon entering the study area

from the north, from a Principal Arterial north of Norwood Avenue to a Collector south of

Norwood Avenue, and land use along the corridor changes from a mixture of commercial,

industrial, and medium-density residential to low-density residential. However, the roadway

cross-section does not perceptibly change until it narrows from 50 feet to 36 feet at Strathmore

Road. This results in through traffic, including trucks, continuing into the neighborhood south of

Norwood Avenue, despite advance signage indicating Norwood Avenue as Route 1A and a truck

route. Spot speed studies performed by Garofalo & Associates revealed that the 85th percentile

speed is 38 mph along Narragansett Boulevard south of Norwood Avenue.



       A roundabout was considered at the intersection of Narragansett Boulevard with

Norwood Avenue to potentially channelize southbound through traffic to Norwood Avenue more

efficiently than a traditional signalized intersection and to also serve as a gateway feature to the

Edgewood neighborhood.       Preliminary investigation indicates that a roundabout capable of

accommodating a WB-50 design vehicle would fit within the existing right-of-way. A

roundabout at this location would cost an estimated $350,000 to $400,000 and is not

economically feasible at this time; however, this alternative should be considered as a long term

solution when funding becomes available.



       In addition to the proposed roundabout alternative at the Norwood Avenue intersection,

horizontal calming measures, including roadway narrowing and raised medians, along

Narragansett Boulevard south of Norwood Avenue would communicate to motorists that this

segment of Narragansett Boulevard is different in function from the arterial to the north. A

                                                31
typical neckdown would extend 5 feet from the existing curb line on either side of Narragansett

Boulevard, while the typical median would be 6 feet wide. These treatments would shift the

alignment of the Narragansett Boulevard travel lanes 3 feet toward the edge of the roadway for a

distance of 50 feet from the intersection and narrow the travel lanes from 12 feet wide to 11 feet.

Proposed traffic calming measures at a typical local street intersection are illustrated in Figure

11, while Figure 12 shows the proposed configuration at the Norwood Avenue intersection.



       Neckdowns and medians would be placed along Narragansett Boulevard at the

intersections with Albert Avenue, Shaw Avenue, Bluff Avenue, and Massasoit Avenue, as well

as on the north side of the Strathmore Road intersection. Neckdowns and a median would also

be constructed on the south side of the intersection of Narragansett Boulevard with Norwood

Avenue as an interim measure until funding could be secured to construct a roundabout at that

location. As a result of the neckdown, the existing two-lane northbound approach would be

reduced to a single lane, and the existing northbound bicycle lane would be extended to the

intersection.   Between Strathmore Road and Ocean Avenue, where the paved width of

Narragansett Boulevard reduces from 50 feet to 36 feet and the greatest number of speed-related

crashes occur, two 3 inch speed humps would be placed along Narragansett Boulevard.



       This combination of traffic calming measures would potentially reduce the 85th percentile

speed along Narragansett Boulevard to approximately 25 mph and would discourage through

traffic from the north from entering the Edgewood neighborhood proper.




                                                32
5.4     Reducing Speeds on Arterials

        In addition to reducing travel speeds and traffic volumes on local streets in the Edgewood

neighborhood, it was the goal of this study to reduce speeds along Norwood Avenue and Broad

Street to be more appropriate for the land uses along those corridors. Spot speed studies

performed by Garofalo & Associates revealed that the 85th percentile speed is 36 mph along

Broad Street, which is zoned commercial and experiences a high volume of on-street parking

turnover and pedestrian activity, and 38 mph along Norwood Avenue , which is predominantly

residential in nature with some low-density commercial uses and exhibits relatively low parking

turnover and pedestrian activity.



        The width of Broad Street and high curbside parking turnover make most physical traffic

calming measures infeasible. Driver feedback devices installed near Park Avenue and near

Ocean Avenue, approximately one-half mile apart, would discourage speeding without impacting

roadway capacity, curbside parking, or access to driveways along the corridor. Studies of the

effectiveness of driver feedback devices in Washington, D.C. have shown that when installed on

two-lane arterials with minimal additional sign clutter, these devices reduce vehicle speeds by

approximately 7 percent13. Therefore, the 85th percentile speed along Broad Street would be

expected to decrease from 36 mph to 33 mph.



        The width and straight alignment of Norwood Avenue contributes greatly to excessive

vehicle speeds. At its present curb-to-curb width, 60 feet, Norwood Avenue has sufficient width

to carry four lanes of traffic; however, it is not striped as such and functions primarily as two 22-

foot travel lanes with parking on both sides. Based on existing traffic counts, Norwood Avenue

13
 KLS Engineering, Driver Feedback Signs Final Report (Howard University Transportation Research Center,
Washington D.C., April 28, 2006), 28.

                                                    33
carries approximately 325 vehicles eastbound in the AM peak hour and approximately 410

vehicles westbound in the PM peak hour, well below the approximately 1,700 vehicle per hour

capacity of a single 12-foot-wide lane. The installation of a 14-foot-wide planted median along

Norwood Avenue would reduce the travel lanes to 12 feet with a 2-foot-wide left shoulder and a

9-foot-wide parking lane in each direction. Median breaks and left turn refuge areas would be

provided at selected locations to allow for U-turns to access businesses and residential

driveways. The median would extend through the Pawtuxet Avenue intersection to prevent

northbound and southbound through traffic movements. These proposed improvements would

provide access management along Norwood Avenue, reducing vehicle conflicts and creating a

more aesthetically pleasing and pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly environment.



           Prior studies of the effects of narrowings, including medians, on vehicle speed indicate

that such measures reduce the 85th percentile speed by an average of 7 percent14. With the

cumulative effect of narrowing the roadway and installing driver feedback devices, the 85th

percentile speed along Norwood Avenue is expected to decrease from 38 mph to 33 mph.




14
     Ewing, 104.

                                                  34
6.0 IMPACTS OF TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES


        To determine the traffic impacts of the proposed traffic calming measures, estimates of

the anticipated cut-through traffic to be diverted were calculated. The projected percentage of

traffic diversion was estimated based on data published in the ITE Traffic Calming State of the

Practice for similar traffic calming applications in Eugene, Oregon, Berkeley, California, and

San Diego, California. At each of these locations, 12- to 14-foot speed humps were placed on

local streets carrying between 3,000 and 6,000 vehicles per day (vpd), resulting in traffic

diversion to a nearby parallel street. Table 6.1 summarizes the changes in traffic volumes along a

representative street in each study area, which ranged from approximately 40 to 50 percent

diversion of existing traffic volumes.

Table 6.1        Traffic Calming Impact Examples

                                           Traffic Volume         Traffic Volume                 %
 Location                                   Before (vpd)            After (vpd)                Change
 Derby Street, Eugene, OR                        3,600                  1,800                   -50%

 Friendly Street, Berkeley, CA                   3,995                  2,340                   -41%

 Aquarius Drive, San Diego, CA                   5,939                  3,254                   -45%

Source: Compiled from Traffic Calming State of the Practice (ITE, January 1999), Appendix A.




6.1     Diverted Traffic Volumes

        For the purpose of this study, it was assumed that 50 percent of cut-through traffic

volumes between Arnold Avenue and Bluff Avenue would be diverted to Norwood Avenue.

Although the studies in Berkeley and San Diego presented in Table 6.1 suggest a smaller traffic

diversion, the higher number observed in Eugene was chosen to conservatively measure the

impact to Norwood Avenue and Broad Street. South of Bluff Avenue, the local streets are farther

                                                      35
from Norwood Avenue and there is less distance between Narragansett Boulevard and Broad

Street. It was therefore assumed that only 35 percent of cut-through traffic between Glen Avenue

and Ocean Avenue would be diverted to Norwood Avenue. Figure 13 illustrates the estimated

volume of traffic diverted north and south of Bluff Avenue, while the projected traffic volumes

along Norwood Avenue at the intersections with Broad Street and Narragansett Boulevard are

given in Figure 14.



6.2    Build Conditions Arterial Street Capacity Analysis

       Using the diverted traffic volumes, capacity analyses were conducted using the Synchro 6

traffic analysis software for the intersections of Broad Street at Norwood Avenue/Warwick

Avenue and Narragansett Boulevard at Norwood Avenue. The results indicate that based upon

the existing geometric conditions and proposed traffic volumes, these intersections would

operate at the levels of service shown in Table 6.2.



       Traffic would continue to operate at acceptable levels of service during the AM peak

hour in the Build scenario, with each movement in the two study area signalized intersections

operating at LOS C or better.



      During the PM peak hour, all movements at the two intersections would operate at the

same levels of service in the Build scenario as in the No-Build condition. At the intersection of

Broad Street with Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue, SimTraffic simulation shows that queues

from the Norwood Avenue westbound left-turn would extend almost to the Narragansett

Boulevard intersection (approximately 2,000 feet) due to the volume of traffic diverted from

local streets, causing additional congestion along southbound Narragansett Boulevard.

                                                36
Table 6.2   Proposed Intersection Level of Service ­ 2014 Conditions with Diverted Traffic
                                                                     Weekday Weekday
      Intersection             Roadway              Movement         AM LOS PM LOS

Broad Street &                     Broad St.            Northbound             C           B
Norwood Avenue/
Warwick Avenue                                       Southbound ­ Lt/Th        B           B

                                                      Southbound ­ Rt          B           C

                               Norwood Ave.              Eastbound             C           C

                                                       Westbound - Lt          C            F

                                                     Westbound ­ Th/Rt         C           C

                               Warwick Ave.              Eastbound             C           C



Narragansett Boulevard       Narragansett Blvd.         Northbound             B           A
& Norwood Avenue
                                                     Southbound ­ Lt/Th        A           A

                                                      Southbound ­ Rt          A           A

                               Norwood Ave.            Eastbound - Lt          C           B

                                                     Eastbound ­ Th/Rt         A           A

                                                        Westbound              A           A




      To mitigate the increased congestion along Norwood Avenue, changes in signal phasing

and lane utilization at the intersection of Broad Street with Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue

were investigated. The following improvements, illustrated in Figure 15, are recommended to

improve intersection operations:

               The northbound Broad Street approach would be restriped to provide one shared

               left-turn/through lane and one through/right-turn lane. Parking along this approach

               would be eliminated north of the existing retail driveway, providing approximately


                                                37
             75 feet of storage for the through/right-turn lane. As noted in Section 3.0, Future

             No-Build Conditions, there is a proposal to redevelop the existing retail property at

             the southeast corner of Broad Street and Norwood Avenue, and this improvement

             would need to be coordinated with that plan.

             The southbound Broad Street approach would be restriped to allow a dual right-

             turn to Warwick Avenue.

             The eastbound Norwood Avenue approach would remain unchanged.

             The westbound Norwood Avenue approach would be restriped as a three lane

             approach, consisting of one shared left-turn lane to Broad Street southbound and

             Warwick Avenue with 275 feet of storage, one exclusive left-turn lane to Warwick

             Avenue, and one shared through/right-turn lane to Norwood Avenue westbound

             and Broad Street northbound. Parking would be eliminated along the north side of

             Norwood Avenue to create 100 feet of storage for the proposed shared

             through/right-turn lane.

             The eastbound Warwick Avenue approach would be restriped to allow a dual left-

             turn to Broad Street.

             Exclusive signal phases would be provided for the Norwood Avenue eastbound

             approach, the Norwood Avenue westbound approach, and the Warwick Avenue

             eastbound approach.



       The levels of service at the intersection of Broad Street with Norwood Avenue/Warwick

Avenue with the proposed improvements are given in Table 6.3.




                                               38
Table 6.3     Proposed Intersection Level of Service ­ 2014 Conditions with Diverted
Traffic and Intersection Improvements at Broad Street & Norwood Ave./Warwick Ave.
                                                                 Weekday Weekday
      Intersection            Roadway             Movement       AM LOS PM LOS

Broad Street &                 Broad St.            Northbound           C           C
Norwood Avenue/
Warwick Avenue                                     Southbound ­
                                                                         C           D
                                                     Lt/Th/Rt

                                                  Southbound ­ Rt        C           D

                            Norwood Ave.            Eastbound            D           D

                                                  Westbound - Lt         C           D

                                                 Westbound ­ Th/Rt       C           C

                             Warwick Ave.           Eastbound            D           D




       At the intersection of Broad Street with Norwood Avenue/Warwick Avenue, all

movements would operate at acceptable LOS D or better during the AM and PM peak hours. The

eastbound left-turn movement from Norwood Avenue, which is projected to operate at LOS F in

the PM peak hour in the 2014 Build condition without the intersection improvement, would

improve to LOS D.




                                            39
7.0 CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE

          The cost of implementing the proposed traffic calming measures described above was

estimated using recent weighted average unit prices obtained from the Rhode Island Department

of Transportation (RIDOT) and from similar neighborhood traffic calming projects elsewhere in

the United States.



7.1       Speed Humps

          The City of Phoenix, Arizona's Speed Hump Program cites the cost of speed humps,

including all associated roadway work, signage, and pavement markings, to be $1,200 as of June,

200915. As a conservative measure to allow for regional cost difference, the cost of each speed

hump was estimated to be $1,500 for this study.



          As outlined in Section 5.0, Recommended Improvements, four speed humps would be

placed along Arnold Avenue, Albert Avenue, and Columbia Avenue; three speed humps would

be placed along Shaw Avenue and Bluff Avenue; and two speed humps would be placed along

Glen Avenue, Massasoit Avenue, Strathmore Road, and Ocean Avenue, as well as the southern

portion of Narragansett Boulevard between Strathmore Road and Ocean Avenue. The total

estimated cost for these 28 proposed speed humps is $42,000, including $39,000 for speed

humps on local streets and $3,000 for speed humps on Narragansett Boulevard.




15
     City of Phoenix, (June 26, 2009), "Speed Hump Program" <http://www.phoenix.gov/STREETS/speedhmp.html>


                                                     40
7.2    Medians

       The cost of the proposed 14-foot-wide planted median along Norwood Avenue and

proposed 6-foot-wide medians along Narragansett Boulevard were estimated using RIDOT

weighted average unit prices for contracts awarded in fiscal year 2009. Table 7.1 lists the RIDOT

standard items and associated unit costs assumed in preparing the estimate.

Table 7.1      Estimated Unit Costs ­ Proposed Norwood Avenue Median
                                                                                       2009
 Item Code                                Item                             Unit       WAUP
  201.0409       Remove and Dispose Flexible Pavement                         SY      $3.27

  906.0210       Cement Concrete Curb Straight Standard 7.1.0                 LF      $20.15

  932.0200       Full Depth Sawcut of Bituminous Pavement                     LF      $1.22

  L01.0102       Loam Borrow 4 Inches Deep                                    SY      $0.29

  L02.0102       Residential Seeding Type 2                                   SY      $1.47




These unit costs were increased by 25 percent to include engineering, pavement markings,

signage, and contingency costs. Based on these assumptions, the proposed Norwood Avenue

median is anticipated to cost approximately $135,000.



       Along Narragansett Boulevard, the proposed medians would be placed on the south leg of

the Norwood Avenue intersection, both the north and south legs of the Albert Avenue, Shaw

Avenue, Bluff Avenue, and Massasoit Avenue intersections, and on the north leg of the

Strathmore Road intersection. Each 50-foot-long median along Narragansett Boulevard would

cost an estimated $4,000, for a total cost of $40,000 for the ten proposed medians.




                                                 41
7.3    Neckdowns

       Each proposed neckdown would consist of a 5-foot curb extension on either side of the

roadway, including two wheelchair ramps with detectable warning systems, extending 25 feet

from the intersection and tapering back to the existing curb line for another 25 feet. Granite curb

would be used for consistency with the adjacent existing curb. Table 7.2 lists the RIDOT

standard items and associated unit costs assumed in preparing the estimate.

Table 7.2      Estimated Unit Costs ­ Proposed Neckdowns
                                                                                     2009
 Item Code                                Item                             Unit     WAUP
  201.0401       Remove and Dispose Granite Curb                              LF     $5.00

  201.0409       Remove and Dispose Flexible Pavement                         SY     $3.27

  202.0100       Earth Excavation                                             CY     $0.40

  204.0100       Trimming and Fine Grading                                    SY     $1.10

  302.0100       Gravel Borrow Subbase Course                                 CY     $16.32

  905.0110       Portland Cement Concrete Monolithic Standard 43.1.0          CY     $42.60

  906.0110       Granite Curb, Quarry Split Circular, Standard 7.3.0          LF     $32.09

  906.0119       3 Inch Granite Transition Curb Standard 7.3.1                EA    $144.00

                 Granite Wheelchair Ramp Curb Standards 7.3.3,
  906.0120                                                                    EA    $336.59
                 43.3.0, 43.3.1

  932.0200       Full Depth Sawcut of Bituminous Pavement                     LF     $1.22

  942.0100       Detectable Warning System                                    SF     $36.32




These unit costs were increased by 25 percent to include engineering, pavement markings,

signage, and contingency costs. Based on these assumptions, neckdowns at each intersection

would cost an estimated $12,000 per approach, plus an additional $5,000 projectwide for

potential drainage improvements. Neckdowns would be constructed at the same locations as the


                                                 42
proposed medians outlined above, for a total estimated cost of $125,000. The realignment of the

intersection of Berwick Lane and Sefton Drive would consist of similar work and would cost an

estimated $25,000, including potential drainage improvements.



7.4    Driver Feedback Signs

       The RIDOT 2009 weighted average unit price for driver feedback signs is $7,850.00. The

estimated cost of these devices for this study was assumed to be $8,000. The total cost for the

two proposed driver feedback signs on Norwood Avenue and the four proposed signs on Broad

Street would be $48,000.




                                              43
8.0 CONCLUSION


       It has been demonstrated that there is a noticeable level of cut-through traffic volume

traversing the 15 east-west residential streets within the Edgewood neighborhood proper at

various points of entry. Speed studies within the area have revealed that 85th percentile travel

speeds along each of these local streets exceeds the posted speed. The purpose of this study has

been to establish the most practical traffic calming solutions and to measure the impacts of these

potential solutions, in the form of diverted traffic, on the surrounding arterial roadway network.



8.1    Recommended Improvements and Cost

       A variety of traffic calming measures were explored to mitigate excessive speeds and

traffic volumes along local streets within the Edgewood neighborhood proper, as well as reduce

speeds along the area's arterial roadways. Recommended alternatives were selected based on the

practicality of their application within the constraints of the existing roadway geometry and local

travel patterns, effectiveness as demonstrated in published before-and-after studies, and cost

effectiveness. These proposed improvements are summarized in Table 8.1.




                                                44
Table 8.1 Proposed Traffic Calming Measures
Existing                                                                                           Estimated
Problem              Proposed Solution                      Result                                   Cost
Excessive speed      Install 3-inch speed humps             Reduce 85th percentile speed to         $64,000
and cut-through                                             approximately 25 mph and traffic
                     Realign the intersection of Berwick
traffic on local                                            volumes by 35 to 50 percent
                     Lane and Sefton Drive
streets
Excessive traffic    Diverted alignment at Norwood          Channelize through traffic to           $167,000
volumes and speed    Avenue intersection                    Norwood Avenue
on Narragansett                                             Identify Narragansett Boulevard as a
                     Install 6-foot-wide medians and
Boulevard south of                                          local street and reduce speed
                     neckdowns at key intersections
Norwood Avenue
                                                            Reduce 85th percentile speed from 38
                     Install 3-inch speed humps between
                                                            mph to approximately 25 mph
                     Strathmore Road and Ocean Avenue

Excessive speed on   Install driver feedback devices        Reduce 85th percentile speed from 36    $32,000
Broad Street                                                mph to 33 mph
Excessive speed on   Construct median to reduce width of    Reduce 85th percentile speed from 38    $151,000
Norwood Avenue       traveled way                           mph to 33 mph
                     Install driver feedback devices



        Additionally, the impact of these proposed traffic calming measures on the local arterial

roadway network was analyzed. It was determined that signal and striping improvements would

be necessary to accommodate the additional traffic diverted to Norwood Avenue and Broad

Street as a result of traffic calming. As discussed, modification to the Norwood

Avenue/Narragansett Boulevard intersections can be made to deflect the northbound traffic

approaching the intersection through the use of a combination of an offset median and

neckdowns to act as a horizontal deflection for vehicles approaching the intersection from the

south and a deflection for those entering the neighborhood from the north. A roundabout option

was also considered from this intersection as a traffic calming alternative. A median along

Norwood Avenue was also considered as a means of reducing overall pavement width and

constricting the roadway to reduce traffic speeds as well as provide segregation of the opposing

traffic flow. With these recommended traffic control improvement, the major intersections



                                                       45
would adequately accommodate the projected 5-year horizon 2014 traffic demand during peak

hours of operation.



8.2    Phasing

       The proposed improvements discussed above could potentially be implemented in three

phases ­ short term, intermediate, and long term ­ to allow for minor incremental improvements

as budgetary considerations allow. Phased implementation would also allow the City to evaluate

the effectiveness and popularity of selected measures prior to a large-scale implementation.



       As previously noted, the study area is bisected by Bluff Avenue, which separates the

Edgewood neighborhood into two functionally distinct zones, with the northern zone providing a

convenient cut-through for vehicles originating from Park Avenue during AM peak hours and

returning during PM peak hours and the southern zone affording cut-throughs for vehicles

originating from areas along Broad Street south of the Park Avenue intersection. The proposed

traffic calming measures along the local streets in the northern zone, between Norwood Avenue

and Bluff Avenue, are best suited for implementation as short term improvements, as the existing

cut-through traffic is more likely to be diverted to Norwood Avenue than to unimproved local

streets to the south. Implementation of traffic calming measures in the southern zone would more

likely result in diversion of cut-through trips to local streets in the northern zone. In addition, the

proposed speed humps along Narragansett Boulevard between Strathmore Road and Ocean

Avenue are recommended for short term implementation to reduce the frequency and severity of

speed related crashes on that portion of roadway.




                                                  46
       Driver feedback signs along Broad Street and Norwood Avenue are also recommended as

short term improvements due to their relatively low cost and ease of installation. Additionally,

temporary striping could potentially be used in the short term to evaluate the effectiveness of the

proposed Norwood Avenue median.



       In the second or intermediate phase of implementation, the remaining traffic calming

devices in the southern zone would be constructed, as would the proposed Norwood Avenue

median and the neckdowns and medians along Narragansett Boulevard.



       In the long term, traffic volumes at the intersection of Broad Street with Norwood

Avenue and Warwick Avenue should be closely monitored, and the recommended mitigation

measures should be implemented when traffic congestion is observed to warrant improvement.

Additionally, the proposed roundabout alternative for the intersection of Narragansett Boulevard

and Norwood Avenue should be considered for implementation when funding is available.




                                                47
REFERENCES


1.   2000 Highway Capacity Manual. Washington, D.C.: Transportation Research Board, 2000,

     revisions through November 14, 2007.

2.   Technical Paper 155, Highway Functional Classification System for the State of Rhode

     Island 2005-2015. Providence, R.I.: State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations

     Statewide Planning Program, June 12, 2003; amended March 2008.

3.   Ewing, Reid H. Traffic Calming State of the Practice. Washington, D.C.: Institute of

     Transportation Engineers, August 1999.

4.   Traffic Engineering Handbook, 6th Edition. Washington, D.C.: Institute of Transportation

     Engineers, 2009.

5.   Parsons Brinckerhoff Improving the Pedestrian Environment through Innovative

     Transportation Design. Washington, D.C.: Institute of Transportaton Engineers, 2005.

6.   KLS Engineering Evaluation of Driver Feedback Signs Final Report. Washington D.C.:

     Howard University Transportation Research Center, April 28, 2006.

7.   "New Interactive "Driver Feedback" Signs Installed at three Denver locations." City of

     Denver. June 6, 2007 <http://www.denvergov.org/NewInteractiveDriverFeedbackSigns/

     tabid/427049/Default.aspx>.

8.   "Speed Hump Program." City of Phoenix. June 26, 2009 <http://www.phoenix.gov/

     STREETS/speedhmp.html>.




                                              48
                                                                        Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                               File Name           : 6615.00 - 090305 - Broad - Norwood
                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 3/5/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                             Norwood Avenue                               Broad Street                             Norwood Avenue
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                  From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2     30       1       2         35         2      1     14       1        18       2        4       2       1           9        2      3      0       0           5          67
    07:15 AM         4     48       2       6         60         2      6     14       2        24       2       14       0       2          18        1      5      2       0           8         110
    07:30 AM         3     47       0       4         54         4      9     19       8        40       1       12       1       1          15        2      6      3       2          13         122
    07:45 AM         3     55       1       6         65         4     12     19       2        37       3       12       1       2          18        2      4      2       0           8         128
         Total      12    180       4      18        214        12     28     66      13       119       8       42       4       6          60        7     18      7       2          34         427

    08:00 AM        4      64       1      4          73        1       6     29       4        40       4      26       3       3          36        5      4       4       0          13         162
    08:15 AM        3      61       2      4          70        0       6     33       8        47       4      22       2       2          30        2      8       6       0          16         163
    08:30 AM        6      59       1      4          70        8       6     27       8        49       4      19       3       2          28        6      3       6       0          15         162
    08:45 AM        6      58       2      4          70        4       6     32       6        48       0      25       5       5          35        6      1       4       1          12         165
         Total     19     242       6     16         283       13      24    121      26       184      12      92      13      12         129       19     16      20       1          56         652



    04:00 PM        0      51      0       1          52        1       1     27       1        30       1      13       0       0          14        1      2       2       0           5         101
    04:15 PM        5     120      5       3         133       10       7     80       1        98       3      39       5       2          49        7      3       8       0          18         298
    04:30 PM        4     114      1       1         120        3      18     84       1       106      11      26       6       0          43       10      5       7       0          22         291
    04:45 PM        4     111      4       1         120        9      14     84       2       109       7      39       4       1          51        5      6       7       0          18         298
         Total     13     396     10       6         425       23      40    275       5       343      22     117      15       3         157       23     16      24       0          63         988

    05:00 PM        3     124      0       2         129        2      10     84       1        97      12      34       4       1          51        4      7       8       1          20         297
    05:15 PM        3     130      3       3         139        8      10     67       2        87       6      25       7       1          39        9      7       7       0          23         288
    05:30 PM        6     137      8       2         153        4       9     63       3        79       3      42       4       2          51        6      9       7       0          22         305
    05:45 PM        2     107      8       1         118        7      10     70       3        90      10      23       7       1          41       11      4      11       0          26         275
         Total     14     498     19       8         539       21      39    284       9       353      31     124      22       5         182       30     27      33       1          91        1165

  Grand Total       58   1316      39      48       1461        69    131     746      53      999      73      375      54      26        528        79     77     84       4        244         3232
    Apprch %         4    90.1    2.7     3.3                  6.9   13.1    74.7     5.3             13.8       71    10.2     4.9                 32.4   31.6   34.4     1.6
      Total %      1.8    40.7    1.2     1.5        45.2      2.1     4.1   23.1     1.6      30.9    2.3     11.6     1.7     0.8        16.3      2.4    2.4    2.6     0.1         7.5
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                               File Name           : 6615.00 - 090305 - Broad - Warwick
                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 3/5/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                             Warwick Avenue                               Broad Street                              Warwick Avenue
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                  From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0      0       2       1            3       0      0      1       0          1      6       21       2       1         30        37     51      0       1         89          123
    07:15 AM         0      0       0       0            0       0      0      1       1          2      5       18       3       1         27        42     68      0       2        112          141
    07:30 AM         0      0       2       0            2       0      0      1       0          1     15       36       5       4         60        61     84      0       3        148          211
    07:45 AM         0      0       0       0            0       0      0     13       0        13      15       30      16       2         63        63     99      0       2        164          240
         Total       0      0       4       1            5       0      0     16       1        17      41      105      26       8        180      203     302      0       8        513          715

    08:00 AM        0       0       3      0            3       0       0     12       4        16      13      52       3       1          69       62      76      0      6         144          232
    08:15 AM        0       0       2      0            2       0       0      2       0         2      13      34       7       1          55       61      92      0      3         156          215
    08:30 AM        0       0       1      0            1       0       0      2       0         2      17      35       2       2          56       51      55      0      4         110          169
    08:45 AM        0       0       3      1            4       0       0      0       0         0      13      35       5       0          53       56      70      2      1         129          186
         Total      0       0       9      1           10       0       0     16       4        20      56     156      17       4         233      230     293      2     14         539          802



    04:00 PM        0       0      2       0            2       0       0       2      0          2     13      24       6       1          44       27      58      0      2          87          135
    04:15 PM        0       0      5       0            5       0       0       2      0          2      9      18       4       2          33       29      67      1      3         100          140
    04:30 PM        0       0      4       1            5       0       0       1      0          1      9      19       3       2          33       28      63      2      3          96          135
    04:45 PM        0       0      2       0            2       0       0       1      0          1     11      15       3       2          31       34      59      2      2          97          131
         Total      0       0     13       1           14       0       0       6      0          6     42      76      16       7         141      118     247      5     10         380          541

    05:00 PM        0       0      4       0            4       0       0     12       0        12       7      17       3       2          29       29      49      0       4         82          127
    05:15 PM        0       0      6       0            6       0       0      4       0         4       9      17       8       1          35       26      57      0       1         84          129
    05:30 PM        0       0      1       0            1       0       0      3       0         3       6      14       1       1          22       44      66      3       1        114          140
    05:45 PM        0       0      5       1            6       0       0      2       0         2      12      13       1       0          26       33      65      1       3        102          136
         Total      0       0     16       1           17       0       0     21       0        21      34      61      13       4         112      132     237      4       9        382          532

  Grand Total       0       0      42       4          46       0       0      59       5       64     173      398      72      23        666       683   1079     11      41       1814         2590
    Apprch %        0       0    91.3     8.7                   0       0    92.2     7.8                26    59.8    10.8     3.5                 37.7    59.5   0.6     2.3
      Total %       0       0     1.6     0.2         1.8       0       0     2.3     0.2       2.5     6.7    15.4     2.8     0.9        25.7     26.4    41.7   0.4     1.6          70
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                     Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                          401-273-6000
                                                                                                                        File Name       : 6615.00 - 090226 - Narragansett - Norwood
                                                                                                                        Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date      : 2/26/2009
                                                                                                                        Page No         :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                         Norwood Avenue                         Narragansett Boulevard                         Norwood Avenue
                               From North                                   From East                                From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM        20      12        0       2         34         1      0      0       0          1      0      80        0       0         80         0      0     49       1         50          165
    07:15 AM        18      24        0       3         45         1      0      0       0          1      0      83        0       0         83         0      0     61       5         66          195
    07:30 AM        18      10        0       2         30         1      0      0       0          1      1     112        0       0        113         1      0     83       1         85          229
    07:45 AM        22      19        0       3         44         2      3      0       0          5      0     126        2       2        130         0      0     63       3         66          245
         Total      78      65        0      10        153         5      3      0       0          8      1     401        2       2        406         1      0    256      10        267          834

    08:00 AM       30       21       0       6          57        0       0       0       0         0      0     123       0       2         125        0      0      77      3          80          262
    08:15 AM       28       27       0       4          59        1       0       0       0         1      0     102       2       2         106        2      1      74      2          79          245
    08:30 AM       27       22       0       6          55        0       2       3       0         5      1      85       1       0          87        1      0      72      3          76          223
    08:45 AM       35       27       0       2          64        1       1       1       0         3      1      93       2       0          96        1      0      75      2          78          241
         Total    120       97       0      18         235        2       3       4       0         9      2     403       5       4         414        4      1     298     10         313          971



    04:00 PM       69       65       0       1         135        0       0       0       0         0      0      24       5       1          30        0      0      44      2          46          211
    04:15 PM       93       83       0       5         181        0       0       2       0         2      1      26       1       0          28        1      0      43      2          46          257
    04:30 PM       82      101       0       2         185        0       1       1       0         2      3      34       0       3          40        3      1      49      4          57          284
    04:45 PM       86      106       1       4         197        0       0       0       0         0      0      40       3       0          43        0      2      38      5          45          285
         Total    330      355       1      12         698        0       1       3       0         4      4     124       9       4         141        4      3     174     13         194         1037

    05:00 PM       80       80       0       3         163        0       1       0       0         1      0      29       0       1          30        3      1      39       1         44          238
    05:15 PM       93      122       0       2         217        0       0       0       0         0      0      37       2       0          39        2      2      46       3         53          309
    05:30 PM       74      100       0       2         176        0       2       0       0         2      1      34       2       0          37        1      0      53       2         56          271
    05:45 PM       73       90       4       3         170        1       2       0       0         3      0      43       0       0          43        2      0      46       0         48          264
         Total    320      392       4      10         726        1       5       0       0         6      1     143       4       1         149        8      3     184       6        201         1082

  Grand Total     848       909       5      50       1812        8      12       7       0       27        8   1071       20      11       1110        17      7    912     39         975         3924
    Apprch %     46.8      50.2     0.3     2.8                29.6    44.4    25.9       0               0.7    96.5     1.8       1                  1.7    0.7   93.5      4
      Total %    21.6      23.2     0.1     1.3        46.2     0.2     0.3     0.2       0       0.7     0.2    27.3     0.5     0.3        28.3      0.4    0.2   23.2      1         24.8
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                              File Name            : 6615.00 - 090210 - Broad - Columbia
                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 2/10/2009
                                                                                                                              Page No              :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                             Columbia Avenue                              Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                     From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total    Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     13       1       1          15        1      0      5       2          8      1       34       0       0          35         0      0        0       0            0          58

    07:30 AM        0     24        0      2           26       1       0      3       0         4       4      57        0      2          63         0      0         0       0            0         93
    07:45 AM        0     22        0      1           23       3       0      2       0         5       2      80        0      2          84         0      0         0       0            0        112
         Total      0     59        1      4           64       5       0     10       2        17       7     171        0      4         182         0      0         0       0            0        263


    08:15 AM        0     40        1      1          42        1       0      6       1         8       6      58        0      1          65         0      0         0       0            0        115
    08:30 AM        0     36        1      3          40        2       0     13       0        15       5      61        0      0          66         0      0         0       0            0        121
    08:45 AM        0     33        1      1          35        1       0      5       0         6       0      53        0      0          53         0      0         0       0            0         94
         Total      0    109        3      5         117        4       0     24       1        29      11     172        0      1         184         0      0         0       0            0        330



    04:00 PM        0     37        3      1          41        1       0      4       0         5       3      43        0      1          47         0      0         0       0            0         93
    04:15 PM        0     42        0      1          43        1       0      5       0         6       1      51        0      1          53         0      0         0       0            0        102
    04:30 PM        0     56        1      1          58        1       0      3       0         4       5      44        0      1          50         0      0         0       0            0        112
    04:45 PM        0     64        0      0          64        1       0      4       0         5       2      42        0      0          44         0      0         0       0            0        113
         Total      0    199        4      3         206        4       0     16       0        20      11     180        0      3         194         0      0         0       0            0        420

    05:00 PM        0     54        0      2          56        3       0      6       0         9       6      46        0      1          53         0      0         0       0            0        118
    05:15 PM        0     61        0      0          61        1       0      8       0         9       5      42        0      1          48         0      0         0       0            0        118
    05:30 PM        0     55        0      1          56        0       0      6       0         6       6      32        0      0          38         0      0         0       0            0        100
    05:45 PM        0     45        1      2          48        1       0      2       0         3       4      35        0      0          39         0      0         0       0            0         90
         Total      0    215        1      5         221        5       0     22       0        27      21     155        0      2         178         0      0         0       0            0        426

  Grand Total       0     582       9      17        608       18       0      72       3       93       50     678       0      10        738         0      0         0       0            0       1439
    Apprch %        0    95.7     1.5     2.8                19.4       0    77.4     3.2               6.8    91.9       0     1.4                    0      0         0       0
      Total %       0    40.4     0.6     1.2        42.3     1.3       0       5     0.2       6.5     3.5    47.1       0     0.7        51.3        0      0         0       0            0
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                       Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                            401-273-6000
                                                                                                                             File Name       : 6615.00 - 090210 - Narragansett - Columbia
                                                                                                                             Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 2/10/2009
                                                                                                                             Page No         :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                                                                     Narragansett Boulevard                         Columbia Avenue
                               From North                                     From East                                   From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2      18        0       1          21        0      0        0       0            0       0      76        2       2         80         0      0      2       0            2        103
    07:15 AM         1      18        0       0          19        0      0        0       0            0       0      79        1       1         81         2      0      3       0            5        105
    07:30 AM         1      19        1       0          21        0      0        0       0            0       0     108        0       1        109         0      0      9       0            9        139

        Total       4       55       1       1           61       0      0         0       0            0      0      263       3       4         270        2      0      14       0          16         347

    08:00 AM        0       19       0       0           19       0      0         0       0            0      0      104       0       0         104        0      0       5       0            5        128

    08:30 AM        1       19       0       0           20       0      0         0       0            0      0       72       3       0           75       1      0       7       0            8        103

        Total       1       38       0       0           39       0      0         0       0            0      0      176       3       0         179        1      0      12       0          13         231



    04:00 PM        1       73       0       0          74        0      0         0       0            0      0       22       0       0          22        1      0       1       0           2          98
    04:15 PM        2       81       0       2          85        0      0         0       0            0      0       30       1       0          31        2      0       3       0           5         121
    04:30 PM        2       85       0       1          88        0      0         0       0            0      0       36       0       1          37        1      0       2       0           3         128
    04:45 PM        6       83       0       0          89        0      0         0       0            0      0       37       1       0          38        1      0       1       0           2         129
         Total     11      322       0       3         336        0      0         0       0            0      0      125       2       1         128        5      0       7       0          12         476

    05:00 PM        7       89       0       1          97        0      0         0       0            0      0       33       0       0          33        2      0       2       0           4         134
    05:15 PM        7       83       0       1          91        0      0         0       0            0      0       25       1       0          26        0      0       3       0           3         120
    05:30 PM        5       94       0       0          99        0      0         0       0            0      0       25       3       0          28        2      0       2       0           4         131
    05:45 PM        2       82       0       0          84        0      0         0       0            0      0       25       0       0          25        1      0       2       0           3         112
         Total     21      348       0       2         371        0      0         0       0            0      0      108       4       0         112        5      0       9       0          14         497

  Grand Total       37      763       1       6        807        0      0         0       0            0      0       672      12       5        689       13      0      42       0          55        1551
    Apprch %       4.6     94.5     0.1     0.7                   0      0         0       0                   0      97.5     1.7     0.7                23.6      0    76.4       0
      Total %      2.4     49.2     0.1     0.4          52       0      0         0       0            0      0      43.3     0.8     0.3        44.4     0.8      0     2.7       0         3.5
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                      File Name        : 6615.00 - 090211 - Broad - Shaw
                                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 2/11/2009
                                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                               Shaw Avenue                                Broad Street                              Ferncrest Avenue
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2     16       0       2          20        1      0      2       0          3      1       29       0       1          31         2      3       1      2           8          62
    07:15 AM         1     16       1       2          20        2      0      2       0          4      2       44       1       4          51         0      0       2      0           2          77
    07:30 AM         0     13       3       1          17        4      1      2       0          7      3       48       0       0          51         2      1       4      0           7          82
    07:45 AM         0     26       3       1          30        2      0      3       0          5     12       71       1       1          85         4      2       2      0           8         128
         Total       3     71       7       6          87        9      1      9       0        19      18      192       2       6         218         8      6       9      2          25         349

    08:00 AM        2     38       3       5          48        4       0      4       0         8      21      69        3      1           94        3       0      1       0           4         154
    08:15 AM        3     33      12       1          49        4       2      3       0         9      23      64        1      2           90        0       3      2       0           5         153
    08:30 AM        5     30      11       1          47        6       4      2       1        13      30      65        1      0           96        4       4      4       1          13         169
    08:45 AM        1     18       3       2          24        1       1      4       0         6       7      60        2      0           69        3       1      3       0           7         106
         Total     11    119      29       9         168       15       7     13       1        36      81     258        7      3          349       10       8     10       1          29         582



    04:00 PM        2     61       1       0          64        3       3      3       0         9       6      33        4      0           43        3       2      1       0           6         122
    04:15 PM        2     57       5       1          65        4       1      4       0         9       3      50        2      2           57        2       1      1       0           4         135
    04:30 PM        0     61       1       1          63        1       2      6       0         9       6      43        1      1           51        3       0      0       0           3         126
    04:45 PM        3     68       3       1          75        2       2      5       0         9       5      43        2      0           50        6       3      2       0          11         145
         Total      7    247      10       3         267       10       8     18       0        36      20     169        9      3          201       14       6      4       0          24         528

    05:00 PM        2     61       4       0          67        3       1     11       0        15       9      46        1      1           57        3       2      1       0           6         145
    05:15 PM        3     60       2       1          66        2       1      7       0        10       3      39        2      1           45        1       2      0       0           3         124
    05:30 PM        2     57       2       1          62        1       0      4       0         5       9      54        3      0           66        4       1      0       0           5         138
    05:45 PM        3     52       2       2          59        2       2      4       0         8       5      38        2      0           45        6       2      2       0          10         122
         Total     10    230      10       4         254        8       4     26       0        38      26     177        8      2          213       14       7      3       0          24         529

  Grand Total       31    667      56      22        776       42      20      66       1      129     145      796      26      14         981       46      27     26       3        102         1988
    Apprch %         4     86     7.2     2.8                32.6    15.5    51.2     0.8             14.8     81.1     2.7     1.4                 45.1    26.5   25.5     2.9
      Total %      1.6   33.6     2.8     1.1          39     2.1       1     3.3     0.1       6.5     7.3      40     1.3     0.7         49.3     2.3     1.4    1.3     0.2         5.1
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                     Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                          401-273-6000
                                                                                                                            File Name         : 6615.00 - 090211 - Narragansett - Shaw
                                                                                                                            Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                            Start Date        : 2/11/2009
                                                                                                                            Page No           :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                           Shaw Avenue                          Narragansett Boulevard                           Shaw Avenue
                               From North                                   From East                                From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2      14        0       0          16        0      0      0       0          0      0      70        1       2         73         1      0      4       1           6          95
    07:15 AM         0      15        0       0          15        1      0      0       0          1      0      77        0       1         78         0      0      2       0           2          96
    07:30 AM         2      14        1       3          20        0      1      0       0          1      0     102        1       1        104         0      1      4       0           5         130
    07:45 AM         1      11        1       0          13        0      0      0       0          0      1      97        0       1         99         0      0      6       0           6         118
         Total       5      54        2       3          64        1      1      0       0          2      1     346        2       5        354         1      1     16       1          19         439

    08:00 AM        3       20       0       0           23       1       0       0       0         1      0      88       3       1          92        3      0      12       1          16         132
    08:15 AM        4       17       0       0           21       0       0       0       0         0      0      74       5       0          79        7      0       7       2          16         116
    08:30 AM        5       18       0       1           24       0       0       0       0         0      0      70       7       1          78        7      0       7       1          15         117
    08:45 AM        4       14       0       1           19       0       0       0       0         0      0      59       0       1          60        5      0       9       0          14          93
         Total     16       69       0       2           87       1       0       0       0         1      0     291      15       3         309       22      0      35       4          61         458



    04:00 PM        3       75       0       0          78        0       0       1       0         1      1      32       3       3          39        2      0       2       0           4         122
    04:15 PM        3       83       0       0          86        0       0       0       0         0      0      24       2       0          26        1      0       5       0           6         118
    04:30 PM        9       82       0       3          94        0       0       0       0         0      0      25       1       1          27        1      0       3       0           4         125
    04:45 PM        5       71       0       1          77        0       0       0       0         0      0      28       1       0          29        2      1       4       0           7         113
         Total     20      311       0       4         335        0       0       1       0         1      1     109       7       4         121        6      1      14       0          21         478

    05:00 PM       12      100       0       0         112        0       0       0       0         0      0      31       1       0          32        2      0       3       0           5         149
    05:15 PM        1       82       1       1          85        0       0       0       0         0      1      27       3       0          31        1      0       7       0           8         124
    05:30 PM        2      108       2       3         115        0       0       0       0         0      2      25       0       0          27        0      0       6       0           6         148
    05:45 PM        5       70       5       0          80        1       0       0       0         1      0      25       0       0          25        3      1       4       0           8         114
         Total     20      360       8       4         392        1       0       0       0         1      3     108       4       0         115        6      1      20       0          27         535

  Grand Total       61      794      10      13        878         3      1       1       0         5       5     854      28      12        899       35       3     85       5        128         1910
    Apprch %       6.9     90.4     1.1     1.5                   60     20      20       0               0.6      95     3.1     1.3                27.3     2.3   66.4     3.9
      Total %      3.2     41.6     0.5     0.7          46      0.2    0.1     0.1       0       0.3     0.3    44.7     1.5     0.6        47.1     1.8     0.2    4.5     0.3         6.7
                                                                        Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                               85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                    Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                         401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                File Name       : 6615.00 - 090212 - Broad - Bluff - Park
                                                                                                                                Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                Start Date      : 2/12/2009
                                                                                                                                Page No         :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                                Bluff Avenue                                Broad Street                                Park Avenue
                              From North                                  From East                                   From South                                  From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM        11     17       1       3         32         0      9        2       0        11       1       26      27       1         55         8      3       8       2         21          119
    07:15 AM         9     10       0       1         20         1      3        2       0          6      1       43      35       4         83         9      6       9       2         26          135
    07:30 AM        11     15       1       1         28         2     10        2       1        15       3       51      29       2         85        15      7       9       3         34          162
    07:45 AM        12     22       0       1         35         3      9        4       0        16       3       61      25       0         89        17      5      14       0         36          176
         Total      43     64       2       6        115         6     31       10       1        48       8      181     116       7        312        49     21      40       7        117          592

    08:00 AM       17     20        2      4          43        6       6       3       0         15       2      54      21        1         78       16       7      22      0          45          181
    08:15 AM       26     13        1      1          41        4      14       7       0         25       1      58      38        3        100       20       7      28      1          56          222
    08:30 AM       16     25        1      1          43        6      20       8       0         34       3      55      31        0         89       19       6      34      0          59          225
    08:45 AM       11     16        2      1          30        2      13       3       0         18       1      26      22        0         49       26       3      15      1          45          142
         Total     70     74        6      7         157       18      53      21       0         92       7     193     112        4        316       81      23      99      2         205          770



    04:00 PM       18     43       3       1          65        5       5       4       0         14       0      28      30        0         58       47      12      18      3          80          217
    04:15 PM       11     56       3       1          71        6       4       3       0         13       3      35      21        2         61       42       3      12      1          58          203
    04:30 PM       14     36       5       2          57        0       5       2       0          7       3      31      22        3         59       23       7      18      0          48          171
    04:45 PM       17     42       4       2          65        1       8       5       0         14       5      30      24        1         60       42       7      20      2          71          210
         Total     60    177      15       6         258       12      22      14       0         48      11     124      97        6        238      154      29      68      6         257          801

    05:00 PM       19     50        1      1          71        1       5       7       0         13       3      36      36        4         79       31       5      16      0          52          215
    05:15 PM       23     37        0      3          63        3       3       3       0          9       2      31      20        1         54       31       8      25      0          64          190
    05:30 PM       19     53        0      2          74        1       4       4       0          9       1      31      28        1         61       36       3      11      1          51          195
    05:45 PM       17     59        0      2          78        7       2       5       0         14       4      36      20        0         60       32      13      13      1          59          211
         Total     78    199        1      8         286       12      14      19       0         45      10     134     104        6        254      130      29      65      2         226          811

  Grand Total     251     514      24      27        816       48     120      64        1      233       36      632     429      23       1120      414     102     272      17        805         2974
    Apprch %     30.8      63     2.9     3.3                20.6    51.5    27.5      0.4               3.2     56.4    38.3     2.1                51.4    12.7    33.8     2.1
      Total %      8.4   17.3     0.8     0.9        27.4     1.6       4     2.2        0       7.8     1.2     21.3    14.4     0.8        37.7    13.9      3.4     9.1    0.6        27.1
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                 85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                      Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                           401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                 File Name        : 6615.00 - 090212 - Narragansett - Bluff
                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 2/12/2009
                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                            Bluff Avenue                          Narragansett Boulevard                            Bluff Avenue
                               From North                                   From East                                  From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks App. Total  Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2      20        0       1          23        0      0        0       0          0      0      70        1       1         72         0      0        6       1           7         102
    07:15 AM         1      15        1       1          18        2      0        0       0          2      0      78        3       1         82         0      0        7       0           7         109
    07:30 AM         1      19        0       1          21        3      0        0       0          3      0      82        0       2         84         0      0       10       0          10         118
    07:45 AM         1      17        0       1          19        1      0        0       0          1      0      77        0       0         77         0      0        7       1           8         105
         Total       5      71        1       4          81        6      0        0       0          6      0     307        4       4        315         0      0       30       2          32         434

    08:00 AM        4       15       0       0           19       2       0       0       0          2       1     95        2       0          98        0       0       6       0            6         125
    08:15 AM        6       15       0       2           23       1       0       0       0          1       0     83        2       1          86        2       0      10       0           12         122
    08:30 AM        7       21       0       1           29       1       0       0       0          1       0     73        1       0          74        2       0       6       0            8         112
    08:45 AM        3       23       1       0           27       2       0       0       1          3       0     46        1       0          47        1       1       6       1            9          86
         Total     20       74       1       3           98       6       0       0       1          7       1    297        6       1         305        5       1      28       1           35         445



    04:00 PM        6       65       1       0          72        0       0       0       0          0       1      18       0       0           19       5       1       5       1           12         103
    04:15 PM        4       65       1       1          71        1       0       0       0          1       0      28       2       0           30       1       0       4       0            5         107
    04:30 PM        5       63       0       0          68        0       0       0       0          0       0      28       0       0           28       3       0       2       0            5         101
    04:45 PM        9       69       1       0          79        0       1       0       0          1       0      21       1       0           22       1       0       2       0            3         105
         Total     24      262       3       1         290        1       1       0       0          2       1      95       3       0           99      10       1      13       1           25         416

    05:00 PM        9       68       1       1          79        0       0       0       0          0       0      12       2       0           14       3       0       3       0            6          99
    05:15 PM        3       95       0       1          99        0       0       1       0          1       0      29       1       0           30       1       0       2       0            3         133
    05:30 PM        9       71       1       0          81        3       0       0       0          3       0      24       1       0           25       0       0       2       0            2         111
    05:45 PM       12       61       1       0          74        0       0       0       0          0       0      28       1       0           29       1       2       4       0            7         110
         Total     33      295       3       2         333        3       0       1       0          4       0      93       5       0           98       5       2      11       0           18         453

  Grand Total      82       702       8      10        802       16       1       1       1        19        2     792      18        5        817       20       4      82        4        110         1748
    Apprch %     10.2      87.5       1     1.2                84.2     5.3     5.3     5.3                0.2    96.9     2.2      0.6                18.2     3.6    74.5      3.6
      Total %     4.7      40.2     0.5     0.6        45.9     0.9     0.1     0.1     0.1        1.1     0.1    45.3       1      0.3        46.7     1.1     0.2     4.7      0.2         6.3
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                              File Name        : 6615.00 - 090213 - Broad - Strathmore
                                                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                              Start Date       : 2/13/2009
                                                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                             Strathmore Road                              Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                    From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     36       1       1         38         2      0      1       0          3      2       63       0       2         67         0      0        0       0            0        108
    07:15 AM         0     30       1       3         34         3      0      1       0          4      5       52       0       2         59         0      0        0       0            0         97
    07:30 AM         0     43       1       2         46         2      0      1       0          3      5       78       0       2         85         0      0        0       0            0        134
    07:45 AM         0     34       2       1         37         2      0      1       0          3      6       78       0       1         85         0      0        0       0            0        125
         Total       0    143       5       7        155         9      0      4       0        13      18      271       0       7        296         0      0        0       0            0        464

    08:00 AM        0      44       0      0          44        0       0       2      0          2      6       87       0       4         97        0      0         0       0            0        143
    08:15 AM        0      52       0      2          54        1       0       0      0          1      3       82       0       2         87        0      0         0       0            0        142
    08:30 AM        0      62       1      1          64        2       0       1      0          3      1       69       0       0         70        0      0         0       0            0        137
    08:45 AM        0      56       2      3          61        1       0       1      0          2      1       69       0       1         71        0      0         0       0            0        134
         Total      0     214       3      6         223        4       0       4      0          8     11      307       0       7        325        0      0         0       0            0        556



    04:00 PM        0      90      1       1          92        4       0      3       0         7       1       81       0       0         82        0      0         0       0            0        181
    04:15 PM        0     101      3       2         106        1       0      4       0         5       1       75       0       3         79        0      0         0       0            0        190
    04:30 PM        0     102      3       2         107        0       0      2       0         2       5       57       0       2         64        0      0         0       0            0        173
    04:45 PM        0     116      4       1         121        2       0      3       0         5       3       68       0       1         72        0      0         0       0            0        198
         Total      0     409     11       6         426        7       0     12       0        19      10      281       0       6        297        0      0         0       0            0        742

    05:00 PM        0     102       1      2         105        0       0      4       0         4       4       74       0       3         81        0      0         0       0            0        190
    05:15 PM        0      92       3      0          95        2       0      2       0         4       3       65       0       2         70        0      0         0       0            0        169
    05:30 PM        0      90       2      2          94        0       0      2       0         2       2       54       0       0         56        0      0         0       0            0        152
    05:45 PM        0      86       0      1          87        2       0      3       0         5       1       60       0       0         61        0      0         0       0            0        153
         Total      0     370       6      5         381        4       0     11       0        15      10      253       0       5        268        0      0         0       0            0        664

  Grand Total       0    1136      25     24        1185       24       0      31      0        55       49    1112       0      25       1186        0      0         0       0            0       2426
    Apprch %        0     95.9    2.1      2                 43.6       0    56.4      0                4.1     93.8      0     2.1                   0      0         0       0
      Total %       0     46.8      1      1         48.8       1       0     1.3      0        2.3       2     45.8      0       1        48.9       0      0         0       0            0
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                     Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                          401-273-6000
                                                                                                                     File Name       : 6615.00 - 090213 - Narragansett - Strathmore
                                                                                                                     Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date      : 2/13/2009
                                                                                                                     Page No         :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                         Strathmore Place                        Narragansett Boulevard                         Strathmore Road
                               From North                                   From East                                 From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         1      14        0       0          15        0      0      0       0          0       0      37        0       0         37         0      0      1       0           1          53
    07:15 AM         1      10        0       1          12        0      0      0       0          0       0      49        1       1         51         0      0      8       2          10          73
    07:30 AM         1      14        0       0          15        0      0      0       0          0       0      53        1       1         55         1      0      5       0           6          76
    07:45 AM         0      12        0       0          12        0      0      0       0          0       0      54        1       1         56         0      0      7       0           7          75
         Total       3      50        0       1          54        0      0      0       0          0       0     193        3       3        199         1      0     21       2          24         277

    08:00 AM        1       12       0       0           13       0       0       0       0         0       0      48       0       0          48        0      0       8       0           8          69
    08:15 AM        0       12       0       0           12       0       0       0       0         0       0      63       0       0          63        1      0       5       0           6          81
    08:30 AM        2       11       0       0           13       0       0       0       0         0       0      47       0       0          47        0      0       4       0           4          64
    08:45 AM        0       17       0       0           17       0       0       0       0         0       0      37       1       0          38        0      0       4       0           4          59
         Total      3       52       0       0           55       0       0       0       0         0       0     195       1       0         196        1      0      21       0          22         273



    04:00 PM        4       52       0       0          56        0       0       0       0         0       0      22       1       0          23        0      0       1       0            1         80
    04:15 PM        4       52       0       0          56        0       0       0       0         0       0      21       0       0          21        0      0       1       0            1         78
    04:30 PM        1       79       0       1          81        0       0       0       0         0       0      27       0       0          27        0      0       3       0            3        111
    04:45 PM        5       56       0       1          62        0       0       0       0         0       0      30       1       0          31        0      0       2       0            2         95
         Total     14      239       0       2         255        0       0       0       0         0       0     100       2       0         102        0      0       7       0            7        364

    05:00 PM        3       56       0       0          59        0       0       0       0         0       0      17       0       0           17       0      0       2       0            2         78
    05:15 PM        1       56       0       1          58        0       0       0       0         0       0      20       0       0           20       1      0       2       0            3         81
    05:30 PM        1       61       0       0          62        0       0       0       0         0       0      18       1       0           19       0      0       1       1            2         83
    05:45 PM        3       39       0       0          42        0       0       0       0         0       0      19       0       0           19       0      0       0       0            0         61
         Total      8      212       0       1         221        0       0       0       0         0       0      74       1       0           75       1      0       5       1            7        303

  Grand Total       28      553      0        4        585        0       0       0       0         0       0     562       7        3        572         3     0      54       3          60        1217
    Apprch %       4.8     94.5      0      0.7                   0       0       0       0                 0    98.3     1.2      0.5                    5     0      90       5
      Total %      2.3     45.4      0      0.3        48.1       0       0       0       0         0       0    46.2     0.6      0.2          47      0.2     0     4.4     0.2         4.9
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                               File Name           : 6615.00 - 090224 - Broad - Chiswick
                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 2/24/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                              Chiswick Road                               Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                    From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     33       0       5         38         2      0      2       0          4      9       59       0       1         69         0      0        0       0            0        111
    07:15 AM         0     22       1       2         25         4      0      1       1          6      7       67       0       3         77         0      0        0       0            0        108
    07:30 AM         0     38       0       5         43         1      0      4       0          5     12       99       0       0        111         0      0        0       0            0        159
    07:45 AM         0     35       1       2         38         1      0      5       0          6     12       77       0       1         90         0      0        0       0            0        134
         Total       0    128       2      14        144         8      0     12       1        21      40      302       0       5        347         0      0        0       0            0        512

    08:00 AM        0      49       0      2          51        0       0       1      0         1       7       88       0      1          96        0      0         0       0            0        148
    08:15 AM        0      52       0      1          53        1       0       5      0         6       7       90       0      2          99        0      0         0       0            0        158
    08:30 AM        0      62       1      5          68        3       0       0      0         3       6       89       0      1          96        0      0         0       0            0        167
    08:45 AM        0      49       0      3          52        0       0       1      0         1       5       56       0      3          64        0      0         0       0            0        117
         Total      0     212       1     11         224        4       0       7      0        11      25      323       0      7         355        0      0         0       0            0        590



    04:00 PM        0      95       0      1          96        1       0      5       1         7       0       63       0      0          63        0      0         0       0            0        166
    04:15 PM        0      86       1      3          90        3       0      2       0         5       0       59       0      3          62        0      0         0       0            0        157
    04:30 PM        0      97       2      1         100        1       0      4       0         5       2       60       0      2          64        0      0         0       0            0        169
    04:45 PM        0      92       0      2          94        0       0      3       0         3       3       77       0      1          81        0      0         0       0            0        178
         Total      0     370       3      7         380        5       0     14       1        20       5      259       0      6         270        0      0         0       0            0        670

    05:00 PM        0      86       1      1          88        3       0      6       1        10       1       52       0      2          55        0      0         0       0            0        153
    05:15 PM        0     106       0      1         107        0       0      9       0         9       4       56       0      2          62        0      0         0       0            0        178
    05:30 PM        0      89       0      1          90        3       0      6       0         9       2       54       0      0          56        0      0         0       0            0        155
    05:45 PM        0      77       0      1          78        0       0      8       0         8       1       63       0      0          64        0      0         0       0            0        150
         Total      0     358       1      4         363        6       0     29       1        36       8      225       0      4         237        0      0         0       0            0        636

  Grand Total       0    1068       7      36       1111       23       0      62       3       88       78    1109       0      22       1209        0      0         0       0            0       2408
    Apprch %        0     96.1    0.6     3.2                26.1       0    70.5     3.4               6.5     91.7      0     1.8                   0      0         0       0
      Total %       0     44.4    0.3     1.5        46.1       1       0     2.6     0.1       3.7     3.2     46.1      0     0.9        50.2       0      0         0       0            0
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                       Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                            401-273-6000
                                                                                                                             File Name       : 6615.00 - 090224 - Narragansett - Chiswick
                                                                                                                             Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date      : 2/24/2009
                                                                                                                             Page No         :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                                                                     Narragansett Boulevard                          Chiswick Road
                               From North                                     From East                                   From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         3      15        0       0          18        0      0        0       0            0       0      40        0       1         41         0      0     10       0          10          69
    07:15 AM         1      11        0       0          12        0      0        0       0            0       0      39        2       0         41         0      0      8       1           9          62
    07:30 AM         4       9        0       0          13        0      0        0       0            0       0      46        0       1         47         0      0     13       0          13          73
    07:45 AM         1       9        0       0          10        0      0        0       0            0       0      55        0       0         55         0      0     12       0          12          77
         Total       9      44        0       0          53        0      0        0       0            0       0     180        2       2        184         0      0     43       1          44         281

    08:00 AM        2       14       0       0           16       0      0         0       0            0      0       44       0       0          44        0      0       9       0           9          69
    08:15 AM        4       14       0       1           19       0      0         0       0            0      0       61       0       0          61        0      0       7       0           7          87
    08:30 AM        0       15       0       0           15       0      0         0       0            0      0       39       0       0          39        0      0       6       0           6          60
    08:45 AM        1       10       0       0           11       0      0         0       0            0      0       40       0       1          41        0      0       4       1           5          57
         Total      7       53       0       1           61       0      0         0       0            0      0      184       0       1         185        0      0      26       1          27         273



    04:00 PM        6       49       0       1          56        0      0         0       0            0      0       26       0       0           26       0      0       2       0            2         84
    04:15 PM        4       52       0       0          56        0      0         0       0            0      0       13       2       0           15       1      0       1       0            2         73
    04:30 PM        6       55       0       0          61        0      0         0       0            0      0       21       0       0           21       0      0       2       0            2         84
    04:45 PM        2       61       0       0          63        0      0         0       0            0      0       16       1       1           18       0      0       2       0            2         83
         Total     18      217       0       1         236        0      0         0       0            0      0       76       3       1           80       1      0       7       0            8        324

    05:00 PM        6       47       0       0          53        0      0         0       0            0      0       22       0       0           22       0      0       1       0            1         76
    05:15 PM        9       50       0       0          59        0      0         0       0            0      0       27       0       0           27       0      0       2       0            2         88
    05:30 PM       11       47       0       0          58        0      0         0       0            0      0       21       0       0           21       1      0       2       0            3         82
    05:45 PM        9       49       0       0          58        0      0         0       0            0      0       16       0       0           16       0      0       1       0            1         75
         Total     35      193       0       0         228        0      0         0       0            0      0       86       0       0           86       1      0       6       0            7        321

  Grand Total      69       507      0        2        578        0      0         0       0            0      0       526       5       4        535         2     0      82       2          86        1199
    Apprch %     11.9      87.7      0      0.3                   0      0         0       0                   0      98.3     0.9     0.7                  2.3     0    95.3     2.3
      Total %     5.8      42.3      0      0.2        48.2       0      0         0       0            0      0      43.9     0.4     0.3        44.6      0.2     0     6.8     0.2         7.2
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                               File Name           : 6615.00 - 090327 - Broad - Windsor
                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 3/27/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                               Windsor Road                               Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                    From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     32       0       3         35         1      0      3       0          4      6       83       0       2         91         0      0        0       0            0        130
    07:15 AM         0     45       2       3         50         0      0      1       0          1      9       64       0       2         75         0      0        0       0            0        126
    07:30 AM         0     38       0       2         40         0      0      3       0          3     12       81       0       0         93         0      0        0       0            0        136
    07:45 AM         0     48       0       4         52         0      0      3       0          3      9       70       0       2         81         0      0        0       0            0        136
         Total       0    163       2      12        177         1      0     10       0        11      36      298       0       6        340         0      0        0       0            0        528

    08:00 AM        0     58        2      0          60        0       0       2      1         3       8      98        0      1         107        0      0         0       0            0        170
    08:15 AM        0     56        0      2          58        2       0       0      0         2       5      89        0      3          97        0      0         0       0            0        157
    08:30 AM        0     60        0      3          63        1       0       2      0         3       7      78        0      0          85        0      0         0       0            0        151
    08:45 AM        0     67        2      4          73        1       0       1      0         2       5      68        0      2          75        0      0         0       0            0        150
         Total      0    241        4      9         254        4       0       5      1        10      25     333        0      6         364        0      0         0       0            0        628

  Grand Total       0     404       6      21        431        5       0      15       1       21       61     631       0      12        704        0      0         0       0            0       1156
    Apprch %        0    93.7     1.4     4.9                23.8       0    71.4     4.8               8.7    89.6       0     1.7                   0      0         0       0
      Total %       0    34.9     0.5     1.8        37.3     0.4       0     1.3     0.1       1.8     5.3    54.6       0       1        60.9       0      0         0       0            0
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                              85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                   Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                        401-273-6000
                                                                                                                               File Name           : 6615.00 - 090326 - Broad - Windsor
                                                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date          : 3/26/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                               Windsor Road                               Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                 From South                                    From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total  Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    04:00 PM         0     76       0       1         77         3      0      7       1        11       1       74       0       0         75         0      0        0       0            0        163
    04:15 PM         0     96       0       1         97         0      0     11       0        11       0       53       0       3         56         0      0        0       0            0        164
    04:30 PM         0    106       2       2        110         2      0     10       0        12       3       66       0       1         70         0      0        0       0            0        192
    04:45 PM         0    100       0       1        101         0      0      9       0          9      2       76       0       1         79         0      0        0       0            0        189
         Total       0    378       2       5        385         5      0     37       1        43       6      269       0       5        280         0      0        0       0            0        708

    05:00 PM        0    104        1      2         107        1       0      7       0         8       3      65        0      0          68        0      0         0       0            0        183
    05:15 PM        0    118        2      1         121        0       0      7       0         7       2      62        0      0          64        0      0         0       0            0        192
    05:30 PM        0    183        1      3         187        1       0      6       0         7       4      63        0      1          68        0      0         0       0            0        262
    05:45 PM        0    172        1      3         176        1       0      7       0         8       4      53        0      1          58        0      0         0       0            0        242
         Total      0    577        5      9         591        3       0     27       0        30      13     243        0      2         258        0      0         0       0            0        879

  Grand Total       0     955       7      14        976         8      0      64       1       73       19     512       0       7        538        0      0         0       0            0       1587
    Apprch %        0    97.8     0.7     1.4                   11      0    87.7     1.4               3.5    95.2       0     1.3                   0      0         0       0
      Total %       0    60.2     0.4     0.9        61.5      0.5      0       4     0.1       4.6     1.2    32.3       0     0.4        33.9       0      0         0       0            0
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                       Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                            401-273-6000
                                                                                                                             File Name        : 6615.00 - 090327 - Narragansett - Windsor
                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 3/27/2009
                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                                                                     Narragansett Boulevard                           Windsor Road
                               From North                                     From East                                   From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2       7        0       0           9        0      0        0       0            0       0      27        0       0         27         0      0      6       1           7          43
    07:15 AM         2       9        0       0          11        0      0        0       0            0       0      28        0       0         28         0      0     15       1          16          55
    07:30 AM         1       8        0       0           9        0      0        0       0            0       0      39        1       0         40         0      0     14       1          15          64
    07:45 AM         2       8        0       0          10        0      0        0       0            0       0      32        0       0         32         0      0     15       0          15          57
         Total       7      32        0       0          39        0      0        0       0            0       0     126        1       0        127         0      0     50       3          53         219

    08:00 AM        3       12       0       0           15       0      0         0       0            0      0       40       0       0          40        0      0      12       0          12          67
    08:15 AM        2       12       0       1           15       0      0         0       0            0      0       29       0       0          29        0      0       9       0           9          53
    08:30 AM        2       10       0       0           12       0      0         0       0            0      0       35       1       1          37        0      0       6       0           6          55
    08:45 AM        1       17       0       1           19       0      0         0       0            0      0       32       0       0          32        0      0      11       0          11          62
         Total      8       51       0       2           61       0      0         0       0            0      0      136       1       1         138        0      0      38       0          38         237

  Grand Total       15       83      0        2        100        0      0         0       0            0      0       262       2       1        265        0      0      88       3          91         456
    Apprch %        15       83      0        2                   0      0         0       0                   0      98.9     0.8     0.4                   0      0    96.7     3.3
      Total %      3.3     18.2      0      0.4        21.9       0      0         0       0            0      0      57.5     0.4     0.2        58.1       0      0    19.3     0.7          20
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                       Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                            401-273-6000
                                                                                                                             File Name        : 6615.00 - 090326 - Narragansett - Windsor
                                                                                                                             Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date       : 3/26/2009
                                                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                                                                     Narragansett Boulevard                           Windsor Road
                               From North                                     From East                                   From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    04:00 PM        11      41        0       0         52         0      0        0       0            0       0      13        0       1          14        0      0      1       0           1          67
    04:15 PM        11      34        0       0         45         0      0        0       0            0       0      13        1       0          14        0      0      0       0           0          59
    04:30 PM        10      43        0       0         53         0      0        0       0            0       0      14        1       0          15        1      0      3       1           5          73
    04:45 PM        12      48        0       0         60         0      0        0       0            0       0      23        0       0          23        0      0      5       0           5          88
         Total      44     166        0       0        210         0      0        0       0            0       0      63        2       1          66        1      0      9       1          11         287

    05:00 PM        6       46       0       0          52        0      0         0       0            0      0       18       0       0           18       0      0       3       0           3          73
    05:15 PM        9       42       0       0          51        0      0         0       0            0      0       17       0       0           17       0      0       5       0           5          73
    05:30 PM        5       43       0       1          49        0      0         0       0            0      0       19       1       0           20       1      0       4       0           5          74
    05:45 PM       10       50       0       0          60        0      0         0       0            0      0       25       0       0           25       0      0       7       0           7          92
         Total     30      181       0       1         212        0      0         0       0            0      0       79       1       0           80       1      0      19       0          20         312

  Grand Total      74       347      0        1        422        0      0         0       0            0      0       142       3       1        146         2     0      28       1          31         599
    Apprch %     17.5      82.2      0      0.2                   0      0         0       0                   0      97.3     2.1     0.7                  6.5     0    90.3     3.2
      Total %    12.4      57.9      0      0.2        70.5       0      0         0       0            0      0      23.7     0.5     0.2        24.4      0.3     0     4.7     0.2         5.2
                                                                        Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                               85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                    Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                         401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                     File Name          : 6615.00 - 090225 - Broad - Circuit
                                                                                                                                     Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date         : 2/25/2009
                                                                                                                                     Page No            :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                                Circuit Drive                                Broad Street                               Rhodes Place
                              From North                                  From East                                    From South                                  From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Trucks App. Total    Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     34       1       1         36         0      0        0       0          0       2       68       0       2         72         0      0      0       0            0        108
    07:15 AM         0     27       0       2         29         0      0        0       0          0       1       73       2       2         78         0      0      0       0            0        107
    07:30 AM         2     38       1       3         44         0      0        1       0          1       1      102       0       0        103         0      0      0       0            0        148
    07:45 AM         0     49       0       3         52         0      0        3       0          3       1       68       0       0         69         1      0      0       1            2        126
         Total       2    148       2       9        161         0      0        4       0          4       5      311       2       4        322         1      0      0       1            2        489

    08:00 AM        2      41       0      0          43        0       1       0        0         1        1       96       1      1          99        1      0       0       0            1        144
    08:15 AM        1      59       0      2          62        4       0       2        1         7        2      105       1      1         109        2      0       1       1            4        182
    08:30 AM        2      55       1      0          58        0       1       2        0         3        4       88       3      0          95        0      1       0       0            1        157
    08:45 AM        1      60       4      3          68        0       0       1        0         1        3       75       3      1          82        1      0       1       0            2        153
         Total      6     215       5      5         231        4       2       5        1        12       10      364       8      3         385        4      1       2       1            8        636



    04:00 PM        1      88       1      1          91        1       0       3        1         5        1       62       2      1          66        0      0       1       0           1         163
    04:15 PM        3      91       1      2          97        2       0       1        0         3        3       65       1      1          70        1      0       1       0           2         172
    04:30 PM        6     104       1      1         112        0       0       1        0         1        0       79       2      1          82        3      0       3       0           6         201
    04:45 PM        4     108       1      0         113        0       0       5        0         5        0       77       3      0          80        1      0       1       0           2         200
         Total     14     391       4      4         413        3       0      10        1        14        4      283       8      3         298        5      0       6       0          11         736

    05:00 PM        0     123       0      1         124        2       1       3        0         6        2       81      5       1          89        3      0       1       0           4         223
    05:15 PM        7     101       1      0         109        1       0       1        0         2        5       65      3       2          75        2      0       1       0           3         189
    05:30 PM        5     114       2      2         123        0       1       2        0         3        0       63      6       1          70        1      0       1       0           2         198
    05:45 PM        5      87       0      0          92        2       2       2        0         6        2       53      8       0          63        3      1       1       0           5         166
         Total     17     425       3      3         448        5       4       8        0        17        9      262     22       4         297        9      1       4       0          14         776

  Grand Total       39   1179      14      21       1253       12       6      27        2        47       28     1220      40      14       1302       19       2     12       2          35        2637
    Apprch %       3.1    94.1    1.1     1.7                25.5    12.8    57.4      4.3                2.2      93.7    3.1     1.1                54.3     5.7   34.3     5.7
      Total %      1.5    44.7    0.5     0.8        47.5     0.5     0.2       1      0.1        1.8     1.1      46.3    1.5     0.5        49.4     0.7     0.1    0.5     0.1         1.3
                                                                         Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                       Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                            401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                File Name        : 6615.00 - 090225 - Narragansett - Circuit
                                                                                                                                Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                Start Date       : 2/25/2009
                                                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                                                                     Narragansett Boulevard                            Circuit Drive
                               From North                                     From East                                   From South                                   From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         3       7        0       0          10        0      0        0       0            0       0      17        0       0          17        0      0      14       0          14          41
    07:15 AM         1      10        0       0          11        0      0        0       0            0       0      19        0       0          19        0      0      14       0          14          44
    07:30 AM         2       8        0       0          10        0      0        0       0            0       0      22        0       0          22        0      0      22       1          23          55
    07:45 AM         2       5        0       0           7        0      0        0       0            0       0      19        0       1          20        0      0      22       0          22          49
         Total       8      30        0       0          38        0      0        0       0            0       0      77        0       1          78        0      0      72       1          73         189

    08:00 AM        1        9       0       0           10       0      0         0       0            0      0       19       0       0           19       1       0     13       0           14          43
    08:15 AM        3        7       0       0           10       0      0         0       0            0      0       26       1       0           27       0       0     17       0           17          54
    08:30 AM        5        9       0       1           15       0      0         0       0            0      0       14       0       0           14       0       0      9       0            9          38
    08:45 AM        4       12       0       0           16       0      0         0       0            0      0       20       0       0           20       0       0     11       0           11          47
         Total     13       37       0       1           51       0      0         0       0            0      0       79       1       0           80       1       0     50       0           51         182



    04:00 PM       16       20       0       0          36        0      0         0       0            0      0       10       0       0           10       0       0      0       0            0          46
    04:15 PM       12       28       0       0          40        0      0         0       0            0      0       17       0       0           17       0       0      5       0            5          62
    04:30 PM       10       39       0       0          49        0      0         0       0            0      0       10       0       0           10       0       0      6       0            6          65
    04:45 PM       11       33       0       1          45        0      0         0       0            0      0        5       0       0            5       0       0      4       0            4          54
         Total     49      120       0       1         170        0      0         0       0            0      0       42       0       0           42       0       0     15       0           15         227

    05:00 PM       12       30       0       0          42        0      0         0       0            0      0        6       0       0            6       0       0      7       0            7          55
    05:15 PM       14       34       0       0          48        0      0         0       0            0      0       11       0       0           11       0       0      4       0            4          63
    05:30 PM       14       28       0       0          42        0      0         0       0            0      0        6       1       0            7       0       0      5       0            5          54
    05:45 PM       15       31       0       0          46        0      0         0       0            0      0        9       0       0            9       0       0      4       0            4          59
         Total     55      123       0       0         178        0      0         0       0            0      0       32       1       0           33       0       0     20       0           20         231

  Grand Total     125       310      0        2        437        0      0         0       0            0      0       230       2       1        233         1      0     157       1        159          829
    Apprch %     28.6      70.9      0      0.5                   0      0         0       0                   0      98.7     0.9     0.4                  0.6      0    98.7     0.6
      Total %    15.1      37.4      0      0.2        52.7       0      0         0       0            0      0      27.7     0.2     0.1        28.1      0.1      0    18.9     0.1        19.2
                                                                       Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                               85 Corliss Street - P.O. Box 6145
                                                                                    Providence, RI 02940
                                                                                         401-273-6000
                                                                                                                                   File Name          : 6615.00 - 090226 - Broad - Ocean
                                                                                                                                   Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date         : 2/26/2009
                                                                                                                                   Page No            :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles
                             Broad Street                               Ocean Avenue                                Broad Street
                              From North                                  From East                                  From South                                    From West
Start Time       Right   Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total   Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru      Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0     40       0       1         41         1      0       7      0          8      21       76       0       1         98         0      0        0       0            0        147
    07:15 AM         0     31       1       1         33         0      0      10      0         10      20       70       0       2         92         0      0        0       0            0        135
    07:30 AM         0     34       1       3         38         0      0       3      0          3      36      113       0       1        150         0      0        0       0            0        191
    07:45 AM         0     49       1       3         53         1      0       6      0          7      34      107       0       1        142         0      0        0       0            0        202
         Total       0    154       3       8        165         2      0      26      0         28     111      366       0       5        482         0      0        0       0            0        675

    08:00 AM        0      48      0       0          48        1       0       6       0         7      22      111       0      1         134        0      0         0       0            0        189
    08:15 AM        0      46      5       4          55        0       0       9       0         9      33       91       0      2         126        0      0         0       0            0        190
    08:30 AM        0      60      3       2          65        3       0       9       0        12      21      106       0      0         127        0      0         0       0            0        204
    08:45 AM        0      56      4       2          62        3       0      12       0        15      21       77       0      1          99        0      0         0       0            0        176
         Total      0     210     12       8         230        7       0      36       0        43      97      385       0      4         486        0      0         0       0            0        759



    04:00 PM        0      84       4      0          88        2       0     32        0        34      13       50       0      1          64        0      0         0       0            0        186
    04:15 PM        0      95       2      1          98        0       0     30        0        30      13       63       0      1          77        0      0         0       0            0        205
    04:30 PM        0     105       2      2         109        5       0     32        0        37      12       57       0      0          69        0      0         0       0            0        215
    04:45 PM        0     116       0      1         117        2       0     42        0        44      18       80       0      1          99        0      0         0       0            0        260
         Total      0     400       8      4         412        9       0    136        0       145      56      250       0      3         309        0      0         0       0            0        866

    05:00 PM        0     117       3      0         120        2       0     32        0        34      10       68       0      1          79        0      0         0       0            0        233
    05:15 PM        0     128       2      1         131        2       0     43        1        46      16       67       0      2          85        0      0         0       0            0        262
    05:30 PM        0     114       2      3         119        2       0     44        0        46      14       66       0      0          80        0      0         0       0            0        245
    05:45 PM        0      94       1      2          97        1       0     37        0        38      11       63       0      0          74        0      0         0       0            0        209
         Total      0     453       8      6         467        7       0    156        1       164      51      264       0      3         318        0      0         0       0            0        949

  Grand Total       0    1217      31      26       1274        25      0     354       1       380     315     1265       0      15       1595        0      0         0       0            0       3249
    Apprch %        0     95.5    2.4       2                  6.6      0    93.2     0.3              19.7      79.3      0     0.9                   0      0         0       0
      Total %       0     37.5      1     0.8        39.2      0.8      0    10.9       0      11.7      9.7     38.9      0     0.5        49.1       0      0         0       0            0
                                                                   Garofalo & Associates, Inc.
                                                                               85 Corliss Street, P.O. Box 6145
                                                                               Providence, Rhode Island 02940
                                                                                       (401) 273-6000           File Name                    : 6615.00 - 100113 - Narragansett - Ocean
                                                                                                                Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date                   : 1/13/2010
                                                                                                                Page No                      :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         Narragansett Boulevard                           Ocean Avenue                                                                           Ocean Avenue
                               From North                                   From East                                  From South                                  From West
Start Time       Right    Thru     Left Trucks    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks App. Total   Right     Thru     Left Trucks   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left Trucks   App. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM         3       0        1       0           4        4      1      0       0          5       0        0       0       0            0       0      1       8      0           9          18
    07:15 AM         8       0        5       0          13        5      1      0       0          6       0        0       0       0            0       0      2      12      0          14          33
    07:30 AM         6       0        4       0          10        5      4      0       0          9       0        0       0       0            0       0      4      20      0          24          43
    07:45 AM         3       0        2       0           5       11      3      0       0         14       0        0       0       0            0       0      2      17      0          19          38
         Total      20       0       12       0          32       25      9      0       0         34       0        0       0       0            0       0      9      57      0          66         132

    08:00 AM        9        0       5       0           14       6       6       0       0        12       0        0       0      0             0      0       1     12       0          13          39
    08:15 AM        5        0       2       0            7       2       0       0       0         2       0        0       0      0             0      0       2     16       0          18          27
    08:30 AM       10        0       2       0           12       3       0       0       0         3       0        0       0      0             0      0       1     14       0          15          30
    08:45 AM       11        0       5       0           16       9       0       0       0         9       0        0       0      0             0      0       0     17       0          17          42
         Total     35        0      14       0           49      20       6       0       0        26       0        0       0      0             0      0       4     59       0          63         138



    04:00 PM       19        0       6       0          25        6       1       0       0         7       0        0       0      0             0      0      3       9       0          12          44
    04:15 PM       25        0       8       0          33        6       1       0       0         7       0        0       0      0             0      0      2       7       0           9          49
    04:30 PM       19        0       5       0          24        5       1       0       0         6       0        0       0      0             0      0      2       8       0          10          40
    04:45 PM       22        0       7       0          29        4       1       0       0         5       0        0       0      0             0      0      4       5       0           9          43
         Total     85        0      26       0         111       21       4       0       0        25       0        0       0      0             0      0     11      29       0          40         176

    05:00 PM       30        0       6       0          36        5       1       0       0         6       0        0       0      0             0      0       3     14       0          17          59
    05:15 PM       28        0       3       0          31        1       0       0       0         1       0        0       0      0             0      0       2      2       0           4          36
    05:30 PM       12        0       3       0          15        1       1       0       0         2       0        0       0      0             0      0       1      6       0           7          24
    05:45 PM       18        0       2       0          20        5       1       0       0         6       0        0       0      0             0      0       3      4       0           7          33
         Total     88        0      14       0         102       12       3       0       0        15       0        0       0      0             0      0       9     26       0          35         152

  Grand Total     228        0       66      0         294       78      22       0       0       100       0        0       0      0             0      0      33    171       0        204          598
    Apprch %     77.6        0     22.4      0                   78      22       0       0                 0        0       0      0                    0    16.2   83.8       0
      Total %    38.1        0       11      0         49.2      13     3.7       0       0      16.7       0        0       0      0             0      0     5.5   28.6       0        34.1
