                                                                                                    5



                City of Palo Alto                                               (ID # 2339)
                City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Action ItemsMeeting Date: 11/28/2011

Summary Title: California Av Streetscape Updates

Title: Approval of Negative Declaration, Adoption of Resolution to Metropolitan
Transportation Commission Accepting Grant Funding, Approval of a Capital
Improvements Program, and Ratification of a Contract with RBF Consulting for
the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape Project

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Planning and Community Environment

Recommendation
Staff recommends that Council consider and approve each of the following items related to the
California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project, in the following order:

   1. Approve the Negative Declaration (Attachment B) for the project;
   2. Adopt the attached resolution (Attachment A) to authorize the Santa Clara Valley
      Transportation Authority (VTA) to submit an application for the California Avenue Г
      Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project to the Metropolitan Transportation
      Commission (MTC) and to commit local-match funding for the project;
   3. Establish a new Capital Improvement Program (CIP) project entitled California Avenue Г
      Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape Project; and
   4. Reaffirm the agreement with RBF Consulting for the design of the California Avenue Г
      Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project with funding from the CIP project.

The Planning and Transportation Commission also reviewed and recommends to Council
approval of the Negative Declaration and the establishment of the CIP project.

Executive Summary
The proposed California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project provides for
improvements along California Avenue between El Camino Real and the Park Boulevard Park
Plaza located adjacent to the California Avenue Caltrain Station. The project provides place-
making elements throughout the project including streetscape furniture, landscape
improvements, and enhanced bicycle parking; traffic calming treatments, including a four-lane
to two-lane modification, enhanced pedestrian crosswalks, and intersection bulb-out
treatments; and improvements to the Park Boulevard Park Plaza.




November 28, 2011                                                                   Page 1 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                          Packet Pg. 376
                                                                                                        5




A recent Superior Court action found that the City's prior action was not timely, in that
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (adoption of the Negative
Declaration) on February 14, 2011 should have preceded the adoption of Resolution No. 9118
on December 6, 2010. In response to the ruling, the City Council, on November 21, 2011,
rescinded prior approval of the Negative Declaration, adoption of the resolution to the
Metropolitan Transportation Commission, and establishment of a Capital Improvements
Program project. The item before Council is an opportunity to reconsider those approvals, as
well as ratification of the subsequent contract with RBF Consulting to provide design services
for the project.

Staff believes these approvals remain appropriate and that the adoption after Council
consideration will allow the City to continue to proceed to final design for the project, pursuant
to the MTC grant.

Background
Development of the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project concept plan
was completed in the Fall of 2010 and includes place-making, traffic calming, and streetscape
improvements that support retail vitality and other economic benefits. In furthering the vision
of the Comprehensive Plan, the purpose of the project is to develop a "complete" roadway that
best utilizes available right-of-way of the street to:

   и   Provide safe space for pedestrians and bicyclists along and crossing the street;
   и   Maintain efficient vehicle movements while slowing vehicle speeds for safety;
   и   Enhance the overall appearance of the street and adjacent non-vehicular space with
       trees and landscape, public art, seating areas for outside dining, benches, kiosks,
       signage, and bicycle racks;
   и   Accommodate parking needs; and
   и   Provide improvements at the Park Boulevard Park Plaza adjacent to the California
       Avenue Caltrain Station.

California Avenue has historically been a four-lane street. It originally provided access to Alma
Street but is now disconnected from that street by the Caltrain tracks, and is not likely to ever
be reconnected. As a result, California Avenue experiences a very low level of vehicular traffic.
The plan proposes a lane reduction to improve the pedestrian/bicycle experience along the
street and the connection between the existing land uses and the enhanced streetscape
elements. The lane reduction also allows existing on-street parking to be upgraded to current
parking design standards while expanding the availability of parking on the street.

Prior Approvals
On December 6, 2010, the City Council approved Resolution No. 9118 (included in Attachment
E) confirming acceptance of a grant from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC)
to implement and provide matching funds for the $1.7 million California Avenue Г Transit Hub
Corridor Streetscape project. On February 14, 2011, following a recommendation from the
Planning and Transportation Commission, the Council approved a Negative Declaration,
November 28, 2011                                                                       Page 2 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                              Packet Pg. 377
                                                                                                     5




pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), and established a CIP project for
the improvements. On July 25, 2011, the Council approved a contract with RBF Consulting to
prepare design options and details for the project prior to construction.

Litigation
The City's actions were challenged in Superior Court by petitioners Joy Ogawa, Terry Shuchat,
Jack Morton and Antonio's Nuthouse, Inc. The petitioners argued that the environmental
review was untimely and inadequate, that the City's Comprehensive Plan was violated, and that
State Open Meetings provisions were not followed. On October 7, 2011, a hearing regarding
the matter was conducted by the Honorable Patricia M. Lucas. An Order from the court was
filed on November 9, 2011, and the City received Notice on November 14, 2011 (Attachment
D).

The Court found that the City's compliance with CEQA (adoption of the Negative Declaration)
on February 14, 2011 should have preceded the adoption of Resolution No. 9118 on December
6, 2010. The Court did not find the CEQA analysis deficient and denied the petitioners' claims
regarding the Comprehensive Plan and the Open Meetings provisions. The remedy specified by
the Court (page 9) was "that the City must declare void that Resolution, as well as its later
February 14, 2011 approval of the Negative Declaration and CIP funding for the project, and
must reconsider those decisions after appropriate CEQA review." On November 21, 2011, the
City Council rescinded its approval of the resolution, environmental review, and establishment
of the CIP project.

The City Council report for the December 6, 2011 meeting and minutes are included as
Attachments F and G. The City Council report for the February 14, 2011 meeting and the
Council minutes are included as Attachments H and I. The Council report for the July 25, 2011
meeting is included as Attachment J.

Discussion
Staff requests that the City Council consider approval of: a) the Negative Declaration for the
project, b) a Resolution to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission confirming acceptance
of the grant, and c) the establishment of a Capital Improvements Program (CIP) project for the
improvements. Because the design contract was subsequently awarded based on the other
approvals, staff also requests that the Council reaffirm that award to RBF Consulting.

Negative Declaration
The City Council is being asked to consider the adequacy of the Negative Declaration
(Attachment B) prepared for the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project.
The draft Negative Declaration was circulated for public review from December 17, 2010 to
January 18, 2011, pursuant to the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA). A detailed design for the project is ongoing and will address project components
including streetscape elements and placement. Key issues raised relative to the project include
traffic, parking, and economic/business impacts.


November 28, 2011                                                                    Page 3 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                           Packet Pg. 378
                                                                                                         5




Traffic
In order to evaluate whether the four-lane to two-lane reduction of California Avenue would
have any significant impacts on existing traffic conditions, a Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) was
prepared (Attachment C) as part of the Initial Study for the project and focused on three
elements:

   и   Intersection Level of Service (LOS),
   и   Roadway Segment LOS by block segment, and
   и   Independent roadway operations analysis of the City-prepared Plan Line Concept for
       California Avenue

These three components of the TIA were discussed as part of the January 12, 2011 Planning and
Transportation Commission (PTC) meeting, for which both the staff report and minutes are
included in the February 14, 2011 City Council report (Attachment H). The Initial Study
concluded that there are no significant impacts associated with the project, including the four-
lane to two-lane reconfiguration. The PTC report also noted that the traffic volumes on
California Avenue are considerably less than other "downtown" two-lane streets such as
University Avenue, Santa Cruz Avenue (Menlo Park), Castro Street (Mountain View), and Santa
Cruz Avenue (Los Gatos). Lastly, no shifting of traffic from California Avenue to adjacent
parallel streets such as Cambridge Avenue or Sherman Avenue is expected if California Avenue
is restriped to two lanes.

Parking
The City-prepared Plan Line Concept for California Avenue increases the number of on-street
parking spaces by a total of 17 spaces to 128. The final roadway configuration determined by
the community through the on-going design process will determine the final on-street parking
space count. A separate parking study currently underway is exploring parking management
strategies to better utilize and market the existing parking supply.

Economic/Business Impacts
The California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project is expected to generate
economic benefits to the City and area businesses. The on-going design process is expected to
include a Business Enhancement Plan that preserves and highlights access to California Avenue
businesses through construction, including preferred construction staging to minimize
disruption. Economic impacts are not required to be addressed in environmental review, except
in cases where substantial blight may be created. Staff and the Council have, however, pledged
to look at factors affecting business enhancement as part of the continuing design process.

MTC Resolution and Local Match Funding
The City Council is being asked to reconsider submittal of a resolution (Attachment A) to
authorize the Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) to submit an application for the California
Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project to MTC and to commit local-match funding
for the project.


November 28, 2011                                                                        Page 4 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                               Packet Pg. 379
                                                                                                         5




The VTA released a call for projects for the CDT Program on August 6, 2010. In response to the
call for projects staff scoped a Concept Plan Line for improvements along California Avenue
between El Camino Real and the Park Boulevard Park Plaza, including a community outreach
process in the late Summer/Fall 2010. The City's grant proposal (included in Attachment F) was
submitted on October 4, 2010. The proposal was accepted and scored well as part of the CDT
Program proposal review process. On December 6, the Council adopted Resolution No. 9118
confirming acceptance of the grant and committing local match funding. The project was
recommended for funding by the VTA Board of Directors to MTC at its December 9, 2010
meeting in the amount of $1,175,200. The City's share of the overall cost was estimated at
approximately $550,000. The release of funds is currently pending at MTC, awaiting the
outcome of the litigation. Staff believes that approval of the resolution and the Negative
Declaration will allow the City to satisfy the Court's direction and that MTC will subsequently
release the funding for the project.

Establishment of New CIP Project
The City Council is being asked to reconsider the establishment of a new CIP project for the
California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape in the amount of $1,725,200, including
consultant design fees of $350,000, based on the City's Concept Plan Line prepared for the
grant proposal process. The final design considerations may impact the overall project cost
depending on the preferred design treatments determined through community input and
review by the Planning and Transportation Commission and City Council.

The establishment of a new CIP project will allow the City to continue its ongoing design
process for the project and confirms the City's local-match funding for the project in the
amount of $550,000. The City's local match is being used to cover design consultant design
fees for the project ($350,000) and the construction local match in the amount of $200,000.

Reaffirm Agreement with RBF Consulting for Design Services
The City Council is being asked to reaffirm the consultant agreement with RBF Consulting for
the design phase of the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project. The
design phase is on-going and is on scheduled to be completed in the Summer of 2012. While
the Court did not order such an action, staff believes it may help to avoid further claims in this
matter.

Resource Impact
The engineer's estimate for the cost of the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape
project is $1,725,200, including consultant design fees of $350,000, based on the City's Concept
Plan Line prepared for the City's grant proposal. The final cost of the project will be determined
as part of the ongoing design process. The VTA CDT grant will provide $1,175,200 in
reimbursable funds for the construction phase of the project. The total cost of the project is
reflected in the proposed CIP project funding.

Policy Implications


November 28, 2011                                                                        Page 5 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                               Packet Pg. 380
                                                                                                        5




The City's Comprehensive Plan recommends that the City enhance the California Avenue
streetscape by upgrading the visual quality of the street to attract businesses and visitors to the
area. Consistent with the Comprehensive Plan goals, the proposed streetscape and place-
making improvements of the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project
should encourage continued desirable growth and enhancement of the area.

Environmental Review
The Initial Study and Negative Declaration are attached (Attachment B), and conclude that no
significant environmental impacts would result from the project. The draft Negative Declaration
was circulated for public review from December 17, 2010 to January 18, 2011, pursuant to the
provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Approval of the Negative
Declaration for the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor Streetscape project is necessary
prior to the filing of grant-funding opportunities.


Attachments:
и   a: Attachment A: Draft Resolution_Cal Ave Grant          (PDF)
и   b: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study          (PDF)
и   c: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis         (PDF)
и   d: Attachment D: November 9, 2011 Superior Court Order           (PDF)
и   e: Attachment E: November 21, 2011 Council Staff Report          (PDF)
и   f: Attachment F: December 6, 2011 Council Staff Report           (PDF)
и   g: Attachment G: December 6, 2011 Council Excerpt Minutes(PDF)
и   h: Attachment H: February 14, 2011 Council Staff Report          (PDF)
и   i:   Attachment I: February 14, 2011 Council Excerpt Minutes (PDF)
и   j: Attachment J: July 25, 2011 Council Staff Report      (PDF)
и   k: Attachment K: Correspondence          (PDF)


Prepared By:                          Jaime Rodriguez, Chief Transportation Official

Department Head:                      Curtis Williams, Director

City Manager Approval:                ____________________________________
                                      James Keene, City Manager




November 28, 2011                                                                       Page 6 of 6
(ID # 2339)
                                                                                              Packet Pg. 381
                                                                                                    5.a



                                  Resolution No. ______
               Resolution of the Council of the City of Palo Alto
               Authorizing the Filing of an Application for Federal Surface
               Transportation Program (STP) and/or Congestion Mitigation
               and Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) Funding for the
               California Avenue Transit Hub Corridor Project and
               Committing the Necessary Non-Federal Match and




                                                                                                          Attachment: Attachment A: Draft Resolution_Cal Ave Grant (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                     Stating the Assurance to Complete the Project


             WHEREAS, the City of Palo Alto (herein referred to as CITY) is submitting an
application to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) for $1,175,200 in funding
from the federal Surface Transportation Program (STP) and/or Congestion Mitigation and Air
Quality Improvement (CMAQ) program for the California Avenue Г Transit Hub Corridor
Improvements (herein referred to as PROJECT) for the MTC Resolution, No. 3925, New Federal
Surface Transportation Act (FY 2009-10, FY 2010-11 and FY 2011-12) Cycle 1 STP/CMAQ
Program: Project Selection Criteria, Policy, Procedures and Programming (herein referred to as
PROGRAM); and

            WHEREAS, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A
Legacy for Users (SAFETEA) (Public Law 109-59, August 10, 2005) continued the Surface
Transportation Program (23 U.S.C. Д 133) and the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality
Improvement Program (CMAQ) (23 U.S.C. Д 149) through September 30, 2009; and

           WHEREAS, SAFETEA has been extended pursuant to Public Law 11-118 and may
be subsequently extended pending enactment of successor legislation for continued funding; and

             WHEREAS, pursuant to SAFETEA, and the regulations promulgated thereunder,
eligible project sponsors wishing to receive federal Surface Transportation Program and/or
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program (STP/CMAQ) funds for a project
shall submit an application first with the appropriate Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO),
for review and inclusion in the MPO's Transportation Improvement Program (TIP); and

            WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) is the MPO for
the nine counties of the San Francisco Bay region; and

           WHEREAS, MTC has adopted a Regional Project Funding Delivery Policy (MTC
Resolution No. 3606, revised) that sets out procedures governing the application and use of
STP/CMAQ funds; and

               WHEREAS, CITY is an eligible project sponsor for STP/CMAQ funds; and

             WHEREAS, as part of the application for STP/CMAQ funding, MTC requires a
resolution adopted by the responsible implementing agency stating the following:

//


101115 dm 8261479                                  1
                                                                                           Packet Pg. 382
                                                                                                            5.a


         1)         A commitment of necessary local matching funds of at least 11.47%; and
         2)         The sponsor understands that the STP/CMAQ funding is fixed at the programmed
                    amount, and therefore any cost increase cannot be expected to be funded with
                    additional STP/CMAQ funds; and
         3)         The project will comply with the procedures specified in Regional Project
                    Funding Delivery Policy (MTC Resolution No. 3606, revised); and
         4)         The assurance of the sponsor to complete the project as described in the
                    application, and if approved, as included in MTC's TIP; and




                                                                                                                  Attachment: Attachment A: Draft Resolution_Cal Ave Grant (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
         5)         That the project will comply with all the project-specific requirements as set forth
                    in the PROGRAM.

             NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Palo
Alto as follows:

             SECTION 1. The officers of the CITY are authorized to execute and file an
application for funding for the PROJECT under the Surface Transportation Program (STP) and
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program (CMAQ) of SAFETEA, any
extensions of SAFETEA or any successor legislation for continued funding.

               SECTION 2. The CITY by adopting this resolution does hereby state that:

         1. CITY will provide $550,000 in non-federal matching funds; and
         2. CITY understands that the STP/CMAQ funding for the project is fixed at the MTC
            approved programmed amount, and that any cost increases must be funded by the
            CITY from other funds, and that CITY does not expect any cost increases to be
            funded with additional STP/CMAQ funding; and
         3. Applicant understands that $(N/A) is greater than the Applicant's (STP/CMAQ
            Amount) Regional Local Streets & Roads formula share of Local Streets & Roads
            programming, and that the Applicant will forgo future programming shares until the
            amount of the overage $(N/A) is reached. (This requirement does not apply to
            CITY, only to applicants who received an "augmentation" greater than $100,000 in
            the Local Streets & Roads program only)
         4. CITY understands the funding deadlines associated with these funds and will comply
            with the provisions and requirements of the Regional Project Funding Delivery Policy
            (MTC Resolution No. 3606, as revised); and
         5. PROJECT will be implemented as described in the complete application and in this
            resolution and, if approved, for the amount programmed in the MTC federal TIP; and
         6. CITY and the PROJECT will comply with the requirements as set forth in the
            program; and

               SECTION 3. CITY is an eligible sponsor of STP/CMAQ funded projects.

          SECTION 4. CITY is authorized to submit an application for STP/CMAQ funds for
the PROJECT.

               SECTION 5. There is no legal impediment to CITY making applications for the
funds.



101115 dm 8261479                                        2
                                                                                                   Packet Pg. 383
                                                                                                    5.a


             SECTION 6. The City Council originally adopted this resolution on December 6,
2010, when there was no pending or threatened litigation that might in any way adversely affect
the proposed PROJECT, or the ability of CITY to deliver such PROJECT. MTC subsequently
awarded the grant and the City adopted a negative declaration for the PROJECT on February 14,
2011. Litigation over the City's approvals was then filed on or around April 8, 2011, and on or
around November 9, 2011, the Santa Clara County Superior Court issued a decision ordering the
City to rescind approval of the December 6, 2010 resolution and reconsider it after appropriate
California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") review (the "Order"). City completed and




                                                                                                          Attachment: Attachment A: Draft Resolution_Cal Ave Grant (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
adopted a Negative Declaration in compliance with CEQA, and has now reconsidered this
resolution and hereby readopts it. City believes this readoption is consistent with the terms of
the Order, and will therefore resolve the pending litigation.

            SECTION 7. The CITY authorizes its City Manager or designee to execute and file
an application with MTC for STP/CMAQ funding for the PROJECT as referenced in this
resolution.

            SECTION 8. That a copy of this resolution will be transmitted to the MTC in
conjunction with the filing of the application.

             SECTION 9. MTC is requested to support the application for the PROJECT
described in the resolution and to include the PROJECT, if approved, in MTC's TIP.

           SECTION 10. The City has prepared an Initial Study and Council has adopted a
Negative Declaration in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act.

INTRODUCED AND PASSED:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTENTIONS:

ATTEST:

____________________________                    ___________________________
City Clerk                                      Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                            APPROVED:

____________________________                    ___________________________
Senior Deputy City Attorney                     City Manager


                                                 ___________________________
                                                 Director of Planning and Community
                                                  Environment

101115 dm 8261479                                  3
                                                                                           Packet Pg. 384
                 101115 dm 8261479
                 4
                                                                                                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                                                                           Director of Administrative Services
                                                                                                                                                                                 5.a




Packet Pg. 385
                                     Attachment: Attachment A: Draft Resolution_Cal Ave Grant (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                                                                                     5.b
 Ci ty of Palo Alto
  Department of Planning and Community Environment
 250 Hamil ton Avenue, 5 t h. Floor
 Palo Alto, CA 94301
  (650) 329-2441         FAX (650) 329-2154
 www.cityofpaloalto.org




                                                                                                                           Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
     Notice of Intent to Adopt a Negative Declaration
     A notice, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, as amended (Public Resources
     Code                  that the                                            effect on the environment.




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements - Phase II      Improvements to Right-of-Way


City of Palo Alto                                          City of Palo Alto, Transportation Division


The project area is limited to the 100 through 400 blocks of California Avenue,
Caltrain station to the east and El Camino Real to the west.



The             Avenue Streetscape Improvements (Phase II) project includes the implementation of
streetscape treatments along California Avenue between El Camino Real and the Caltrain - Park Blvd Plaza.
Proj ect elements include: community identity markers; traffic calming treatments such as speed tables at
existing mid-block crosswalk locations, bulb-outs at intersections to reduce crosswalk lengths, and a 4-lane to
2-lane reduction; streetscape elements such as decorative pavement bands to divide parking lanes from
parking lanes, outdoor seating areas, enhanced bicycle parking elements, infonnation kiosks, and newspaper

improvements at the Caltrain - Park Blvd Plaza.




The putpose of this notice is to inform you that the City of Palo Alto Planning Staff has recommended that a
Negative Declaration be approved for this project. City Planning Staff has reviewed the Initial Study for the
proj ect, and based upon substantial evidence in the record, fmds that no significant environmental effects will
occur. It should be noted that the approval of a Negative Declaration does not constitute approval of the
project under consideration. The decision to approve or deny the project will be made separately.


Pu . Comments                      correctness,              or                                     are
invited and must be received on or before the end of the public review period. Such comments should be
based on specific environmental concerns. Written comments should be addressed to the City of Palo Alto,
Planning Department, 250 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94301. For additional information regarding
this Negative Declaration, please contact Clare Campbell at 650-617-3191.




                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 386
                                                                                                                                  5.b
..~q~.Njigl!tWji;Q~j;\1i!r~!i~n\lil~'!:liitiaj~tijll~~~Yiij~;~l~W~il1l{:tj1'~;tpn9Wip'g~iД.\)\lti~~~~J ,'.      i'J~!~',U".
 (1) Planning Department, 250 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94301
 (2) Development Center, 285 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94301




 NA




                                                                                                                                        Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
,'~~t.igatiQnиi\;l:ellsu res inб11I4ej\jI\JlIepr~J~~ftt<l';~t~Ц!~~.~~~fel\~#'I~иMgW:tf~~atl~m\J~~~Wc)БI!;I~~i~J(Il~fiS
 '~Jg#irtell!1~Ie,"jil;., и"      ... ,<, ";. ,'....ии.ии,>и;::'.....,C;CJ> .:." ', ..', X.,,,;";:"" >,,'t,"':; i'l'?' ,;, ','
 NA




 Prepared by:
 Clare Campbell, Planner




                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2

                                                                                                                         Packet Pg. 387
                                                                                                           5.b
i                                                      DRAFT ADOPTIlDON: ~~~~~_ _ _ __



                                             City of Palo Alto
                             Department of Planning and Community Environment
                                    California Environmental Quality Act
                                  DRAFT NEGATIVE DECLARATION




                                                                                                                 Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                                                                      M



     I.       DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT

     Date:                  December 20,2010

     Project Name:          California Avenue Streetscape Improvements - Phase II

     Project Location:      The project area is limited to the 100 through 400 blocks of California
                            Avenue. which is bounded by the Caltrain station to the east and El
                            Camino Real to the west..

     Applicant:             City of Palo Alto, Transportation Division
                            J mme Rodriquez, Chief Transportation Official

     Owner:                 City of Palo Alto
                            250 Hamilton Avenue
                            Palo Alto, CA 94301

     Project Description:

      The California Avenue Streetscape Improvements (phase II) project includes the implementation
      of streetscape treatments along California Avenue between El Camino Real and the Caltrain -
    --Ba1'kd,llwiHtla~ 1?:eej@«l;0h_@ffi8i!ll@!\Jld~~tlfltit-y=ma1'l<e1'S}-t;raftjie eaimi.1tIl'f'!;g=====-
      treatments such as speed tables at existing mid-block crosswalk locations, bulb-outs at
      intersections to reduce crosswalk lengths, and a 4-lane to 2-lane reduction; streetscape elements
      such as decorative pavement bands to divide parking lanes from parking lanes, outdoor sealing
      areas, enhanced bicycle parking elements, information kiosks, and newspaper racks; landscape
      improvements; enhanced and additional on-street vehicle parking; and community-focused
      improvements at the Caltrain - Park Blvd Plaza.


     II.      DETERMINATION

     In accordance with the City of Palo Alto's procedures for compliance with the California
     Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the City has conducted an Initial Study to determine
     whether the proposed project could have a significant efred on the environment. On the
     basis of that study, the City makes the following determination:

          X        The proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the
                   environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATl ON is hereby adopted.




                                                                                                  Packet Pg. 388
                                                                                                    5.b

              Although the project, as proposed, could have a significant effect on the
              environment, there will not be a significant effect on the environment in this
              case because mitigation measures for traffic Impacts have been added to the
              project and, therefore, a MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION is
              hereby adopted.
mm~:m~'MmMA~qM'~nH   __mm~~w~n~~mD____~~n=~"~WM~~~~'~'~~"Wu.~u~mX!~m_~wm=mm"~.~AAW~~~WM
                                                                                      __~~


The attached initial study incorporates all relevant information regarding the potential




                                                                                                          Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
environmental effects of the project and confiIms the determination that an EIR is not required
for the project



                                                                              \Z-ZtJ-ID
Project Planner                                                              Date




Adopted by        Director     of   Planning   and     Commnnity              Date
Environment
                                               roved




                                                                                Page2of2


                                                                                           Packet Pg. 389
                                                                                             5.b




                                   California Avenue




                                                                                                   Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                     Streetscape Improvements

                                                   Phase II

                                               Initial Study




                                                  Prepared by
                                                City of Palo Alto

                                            December 20, 2010

California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II     Page 1    Initial Study

                                                                                    Packet Pg. 390
                                                                                                                                              5.b




                                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
                                                                      City of Palo Alto
                                     Department of Planning and Community Environment




                                                                                                                                                    Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION..............................................................................................4
II.      ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST AND DISCUSSION OF IMPACTS .....................7
         A.     AESTHETICS .........................................................................................................8
         B.     AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST RESOURCES ................................................9
         C.     AIR QUALITY......................................................................................................10
         D.     BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES...............................................................................12
         E.     CULTURAL RESOURCES..................................................................................13
         F.     GEOLOGY, SOILS AND SEISMICITY..............................................................13
         G.     GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS .....................................................................15
         H.     HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS .................................................16
         I.     HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY ..........................................................17
         J.     LAND USE AND PLANNING ............................................................................19
         K.     MINERAL RESOURCES .....................................................................................19
         L.     NOISE....................................................................................................................20
         M. POPULATION AND HOUSING .........................................................................21
         N.     PUBLIC SERVICES .............................................................................................22
         O.     RECREATION ......................................................................................................22
         P.     TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC ................................................................23
         Q.     UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS ..............................................................26
         R.     MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE...............................................27
III.     SOURCE REFERENCES..............................................................................................28
IV.      DETERMINATION.......................................................................................................29




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                    Page 3                                      Initial Study

                                                                                                                                     Packet Pg. 392
                                                                                                                   5.b




                                                         ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
                                    Department of Planning and Community Environment




                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION



1.       PROJECT TITLE

         California Avenue Streetscape Improvements - Phase II

2.       LEAD AGENCY NAME AND ADDRESS

         City of Palo Alto
         Department of Planning and Community Environment
         250 Hamilton Ave.
         Palo Alto, CA 94303

3.       CONTACT PERSON AND PHONE NUMBER

         Clare Campbell, Planner
         City of Palo Alto
         650-617-3191

4.       PROJECT SPONSOR'S NAME AND ADDRESS

         City of Palo Alto, Transportation Division
         Jaime Rodriquez, Chief Transportation Official

5.       APPLICATION NUMBER - NA


6.       PROJECT LOCATION

         The project site is centrally located in the city of Palo Alto, in the northern part of Santa Clara
         County, west of U.S. Highway 101 and east of State Route 82 (El Camino Real), as shown on
         Figure 1, Regional Map. The project area is limited to the 100 through 400 blocks of California
         Avenue, which is bounded by the Caltrain station to the east and El Camino Real to the west,
         as shown on Figure 2, Vicinity Map.




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II    Page 4                           Initial Study

                                                                                                          Packet Pg. 393
                                                                                                    5.b




                                                                                                          Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                 Figure 1: Regional Map




                                                  Figure 2: Vicinity Map


California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II          Page 5      Initial Study

                                                                                           Packet Pg. 394
                                                                                                                   5.b




7.       GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION

         The project area is designated as Regional/Community Commercial in the Palo Alto 1998 Г
         2010 Comprehensive Plan. This land use designation includes larger shopping centers and
         districts that have wider variety goods and services than the neighborhood shopping areas.




                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
         They rely on larger trade areas and include such uses as department stores, bookstores,
         furniture stores, toy stores, apparel shops, restaurants, theaters, and non-retail services such as
         offices and banks. California Avenue is designated as a "collector" street in Palo Alto's
         roadway hierarchy. This type of roadway collects and distributes local traffic to and from
         arterial streets and provides access to adjacent properties.

8.       ZONING

         The project area is zoned CC(2)(R)(P), Community Commercial (2) with a Retail and
         Pedestrian shopping combining district overlay. The project area also falls within the
         boundaries of the Pedestrian and Transit Oriented Development (PTOD) overlay district. The
         project will not result in a change of use and does not conflict with the existing zoning.

         The CC Community Commercial district is intended to create and maintain major commercial
         centers accommodating a broad range of office, retail sales, and other commercial activities of
         community-wide or regional significance. The CC community commercial district is intended
         to be applied to regional/community commercial centers identified by the Palo Alto
         Comprehensive Plan. The community commercial (2) (CC(2)) subdistrict is intended to modify
         the site development regulations of the CC community commercial district, where applied in
         combination with such district, to allow site specific variations to the community commercial
         uses and development requirements in the CC district.

         The (R) Retail shopping combining district is intended to modify the uses allowed in a
         commercial district, where applied in combination with such district, to allow only retail,
         eating and service oriented commercial development on the ground floors.

         The (P) Pedestrian shopping combining district is intended to modify the regulations of the CC
         community commercial district in locations where it is deemed essential to foster the continuity
         of retail stores and display windows and to avoid a monotonous pedestrian environment in
         order to establish and maintain an economically healthy retail district.

         The California Avenue Pedestrian and Transit Oriented Development (PTOD) Combining
         District is intended to allow higher density residential dwellings on commercial, industrial and
         multi-family parcels within a walkable distance of the California Avenue Caltrain station,
         while protecting low density residential parcels and parcels with historical resources that may
         also be located in or adjacent to this area. The combining district is intended to foster densities
         and facilities that: (1) Support use of public transportation; (2) Encourage a variety of housing
         types, commercial retail and limited office uses; (3) Encourage project design that achieves an
         overall context-based development for the PTOD overlay area; (4) Require streetscape design
         elements that are attractive pedestrians and bicyclists; (5) Increase connectivity to surrounding
         existing and planned pedestrian and bicycle facilities; and (6) Implement the city's Housing


California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II    Page 6                           Initial Study

                                                                                                          Packet Pg. 395
                                                                                                                     5.b




         Element and Comprehensive Plan. A PTOD combining district may be applied to a parcel
         through rezoning of the site that is within the specified boundaries of the district.

9.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                           Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
         The California Avenue Streetscape Improvements (Phase II) project includes the
         implementation of streetscape treatments along California Avenue between El Camino Real
         and the Caltrain Г Park Blvd Plaza. Project elements include: community identity markers;
         traffic calming treatments such as speed tables at existing mid-block crosswalk locations, bulb-
         outs at intersections to reduce crosswalk lengths, and a 4-lane to 2-lane reduction; streetscape
         elements such as decorative pavement bands to divide parking lanes from parking lanes,
         outdoor seating areas, enhanced bicycle parking elements, information kiosks, and newspaper
         racks; landscape improvements; enhanced and additional on-street vehicle parking; and
         community-focused improvements at the Caltrain Г Park Blvd Plaza.

         Palo Alto Review Requirements
         The proposed project requires Architectural Review by the City of Palo Alto. The project is
         required to conform to the designated zoning and related Comprehensive Plan polices.

10.      SURROUNDING LAND USES AND SETTING

         The project area is a commercial zone with a variety of restaurants, retail and grocery stores
         and is surrounded primarily with similar non-residential uses within a two block radius. Further
         to the north and south, residential uses become the dominant land use.

11.      OTHER PUBLIC AGENCY APPROVALS REQUIRED

         Not applicable.

ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST AND DISCUSSION OF IMPACTS


EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

1) A brief explanation is required for all answers except "No Impact" answers that are adequately supported by
   the information sources a lead agency cites in the parentheses following each question. [A "No Impact"
   answer is adequately supported if the referenced information sources show that the impact simply
   does not apply to projects like the one involved (e. g. the project falls outside a fault rupture zone). A
   "No Impact" answer should be explained where it is based on project-specific factors as well as
   general standards (e. g. the project will not expose sensitive receptors to pollutants, based on a
   project-specific screening analysis).]

2) All answers must take account of the whole action involved, including off-site as well as on-site,
   cumulative as well as project-level, indirect as well as direct, and construction as well as operational
   impacts.




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II     Page 7                            Initial Study

                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 396
                                                                                                                                5.b




3) Once the lead agency has determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then the checklist
   answers must indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less than significant with mitigation, or
   less than significant. Potentially Significant Impact" is appropriate if there is substantial evidence that an
   effect may be significant. If there are one or more "Potentially Significant Impact" entries when the
   determination is made, an EIR is required.




                                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
4) "(Mitigated) Negative Declaration: Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated" applies where the
   incorporation of mitigation measures has reduced an effect from "Potentially Significant Impact" to a "Less
   than Significant Impact." The lead agency must describe the mitigation measures, and briefly explain how
   they reduce the effect to a less than significant level (mitigation measures from Section 17, "Earlier
   Analysis," may be cross-referenced).

5) Earlier analysis may be used where, pursuant to the tiering, program EIR, or other CEQA process, an effect
   has been adequately analyzed in an earlier EIR or negative declaration. Section 15063 (C)(3) (D). In this
   case, a brief discussion should identify the following:
   a) Earlier Analysis Used. Identify and state where they are available for review.
   b) Impacts Adequately Addressed. Identify which effects from the above checklist were within the scope
       of and adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and state
       whether such effects were addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis.
   c) Mitigation Measures. For effects that are "Less than Significant with Mitigation Measures
       Incorporated," describe the mitigation measures which were incorporated or refined from the earlier
       document and the extent to which they address site-specific conditions for the project.

6) Lead agencies are encouraged to incorporate into the checklist references to information sources for
   potential impacts (e.g. general plans, zoning ordinances). Reference to a previously prepared or outside
   document should, where appropriate, include a reference to the page or pages where the statement is
   substantiated.

7) Supporting Information Sources: A source list should be attached, and other sources used or individuals
   contacted should be cited in the discussion.

8) The explanation of each issue should identify:
   a) the significance criteria or threshold, if any, used to evaluate each question; and
   b) the mitigation measure identified, if any, to reduce the impact to less than significance.


DISCUSSION OF IMPACTS

The following Environmental Checklist was used to identify environmental impacts, which could occur if the
proposed project is implemented. The left-hand column in the checklist lists the source(s) for the answer to each
question. The sources cited are identified at the end of the checklist. Discussions of the basis for each answer
and a discussion of mitigation measures that are proposed to reduce potential significant impacts are included.

A.       AESTHETICS
      Issues and Supporting Information                    Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than          No
                  Resources                                              Significant    Significant   Significant      Impact
                                                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                Would the project:                                                      Mitigation
                                                                                       Incorporated
 a) Substantially degrade the existing visual           1,2,5                                             X
      character or quality of the site and its



California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                Page 8                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                      Packet Pg. 397
                                                                                                                                      5.b




           Issues and Supporting Information                     Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than          No
                       Resources                                               Significant    Significant   Significant      Impact
                                                                                 Issues         Unless        Impact
                    Would the project:                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                             Incorporated
           surroundings?
      b) Have a substantial adverse effect on a              1, 2-Map L4,                                       X




                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
         public view or view corridor?                       5
      c) Substantially damage scenic resources,              1, 2-Map L4,                                                      X
         including, but not limited to, trees, rock          5
         outcroppings, and historic buildings within
         a state scenic highway?
      d) Violate existing Comprehensive Plan                 1,2,5                                                             X
         policies regarding visual resources?
      e) Create a new source of substantial light or         1,5,6                                                             X
         glare which would adversely affect day or
         nighttime views in the area?
      f) Substantially shadow public open space              1,5,6                                                             X
         (other than public streets and adjacent
         sidewalks) between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00
         p.m. from September 21 to March 21?

     DISCUSSION:

     The proposed project is required by the City of Palo Alto to undergo Architectural Review. The intent
     of this review is to (1) Promote orderly and harmonious development in the city; (2) Enhance the
     desirability of residence or investment in the city; (3) Encourage the attainment of the most desirable
     use of land and improvements; (4) Enhance the desirability of living conditions upon the immediate
     site or in adjacent areas; and (5) Promote visual environments which are of high aesthetic quality and
     variety and which, at the same time, are considerate of each other. The proposed improvements are
     anticipated to have a less than significant aesthetic impact due to the required conformance with the
     Architectural Review requirements.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     B.       AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST RESOURCES
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                     Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than          No
                                                                               Significant    Significant   Significant      Impact
                   Would the project:                                            Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                              Mitigation
                                                                                             Incorporated
a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland,                  1                                                                 X
   or Farmland of Statewide Importance
   (Farmland), as shown on the maps prepared
   pursuant to the Farmland Mapping and
   Monitoring Program of the California
   Resources Agency, to non-agricultural use?
b) Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural            1, 2-MapL9                                                        X
   use, or a Williamson Act contract?




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                 Page 9                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 398
                                                                                                                                      5.b




 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                     Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than          No
                                                                               Significant    Significant   Significant      Impact
                   Would the project:                                            Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                              Mitigation
                                                                                             Incorporated
c) Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause               1                                                                 X
   rezoning of, forest land (as defined in Public




                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
   Resources Code section 12220(g)1) or
   timberland (as defined in Public Resources
   Code section 45262)?
d) Result in the loss of forest land or conversion           1                                                                 X
   of forest land to non-forest use?
e) Involve other changes in the existing                     1                                                                 X
   environment which, due to their location or
   nature, could result in conversion of
   Farmland, to non-agricultural use or
   conversion of forest land to non-forest use?


     DISCUSSION:
     The project area is not located in a "Prime Farmland", "Unique Farmland", or "Farmland of Statewide
     Importance" area, as shown on the maps prepared for the Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program
     of the California Resources Agency. The site is not zoned for agricultural use, and is not regulated by
     the Williamson Act. The project area is within a fully developed urban area and has no impacts on
     forest or timberland.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     C.       AIR QUALITY
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                     Sources      Potentially     Potentially   Less Than          No
                                                                              Significant     Significant   Significant      Impact
                   Would the project:                                           Issues          Unless        Impact
                                                                                              Mitigation
                                                                                             Incorporated
a) Conflict with or obstruct with implementation             1,5,9                                                             X
   of the applicable air quality plan (1982 Bay
   Area Air Quality Plan & 2000 Clean Air Plan)?
b) Violate any air quality standard or contribute
   substantially to an existing or projected air
   quality violation indicated by the following:
   i. Direct and/or indirect operational                     1,5,9                                              X
        emissions that exceed the Bay Area Air

     1
       PRC 12220(g): "Forest land" is land that can support 10-percent native tree cover of any species,
     including hardwoods, under natural conditions, and that allows for management of one or more forest
     resources, including timber, aesthetics, fish and wildlife, biodiversity, water quality, recreation, and
     other public benefits.
     2
       PRC 4526: "Timberland" means land, other than land owned by the federal government and land
     designated by the board as experimental forest land, which is available for, and capable of, growing a
     crop of trees of any commercial species used to produce lumber and other forest products, including
     Christmas trees. Commercial species shall be determined by the board on a district basis after
     consultation with the district committees and others.


     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                 Page 10                          Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 399
                                                                                                                               5.b




 Issues and Supporting Information Resources               Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than          No
                                                                        Significant    Significant   Significant      Impact
                Would the project:                                        Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                       Mitigation
                                                                                      Incorporated
        Quality Management District (BAAQMD)
        criteria air pollutants of 80 pounds per day




                                                                                                                                     Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
        and/or 15 tons per year for nitrogen oxides
        (NO), reactive organic gases (ROG), and
        fine particulate matter of less than 10
        microns in diameter (PM10);
   ii. Contribute to carbon monoxide (CO)                 1,5,9                                                         X
        concentrations exceeding the State
        Ambient Air Quality Standard of nine
        parts per million (ppm) averaged over
        eight hours or 20 ppm for one hour( as
        demonstrated by CALINE4 modeling,
        which would be performed when a) project
        CO emissions exceed 550 pounds per day
        or 100 tons per year; or b) project traffic
        would impact intersections or roadway
        links operating at Level of Service (LOS)
        D, E or F or would cause LOS to decline to
        D, E or F; or c) project would increase
        traffic volumes on nearby roadways by
        10% or more)?
c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net              1,5,9                                          X
   increase of any criteria pollutant for which the
   project region is non-attainment under an
   applicable federal or state ambient air quality
   standard (including releasing emissions which
   exceed quantitative thresholds for ozone
   precursors)?
d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial levels       1,5,9                                                         X
   of toxic air contaminants?
   i. Probability of contracting cancer for the           1,9                                                           X
        Maximally Exposed Individual (MEI)
        exceeds 10 in one million
   ii. Ground-level concentrations of non-                1,9                                                           X
        carcinogenic TACs would result in a
        hazard index greater than one (1) for the
        MEI
e) Create objectionable odors affecting a                 1,9                                                           X
   substantial number of people?
f) Not implement all applicable construction              1,9                                                           X
   emission control measures recommended in the
   Bay Area Air Quality Management District
   CEQA Guidelines?

  DISCUSSION:
  Based on the Bay Area Air Quality Management District's (BAAQMD) thresholds, it is not anticipated that the
  project would affect any regional air quality plan or standards, or result in a cumulatively considerable net
  increase of any criteria pollutant. The extent of the effects on air quality will be temporary only, during the
  period of site preparation and construction. The City of Palo Alto uses the BAAQMD's Basic Control Measures



  California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II              Page 11                         Initial Study

                                                                                                                     Packet Pg. 400
                                                                                                                                      5.b




     to reduce particulate emissions during project construction to a less than significant level. The project and
     related construction activities are anticipated to have a less than significant impact on air quality.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required




                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
     D.       BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                    Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No
                                                                              Significant    Significant   Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                            Incorporated
a)  Have a substantial adverse effect, either                1, 2-MapN1,                                                       X
    directly or through habitat modifications, on            5
    any species identified as a candidate, sensitive,
    or special status species in local or regional
    plans, policies, or regulations, or by the
    California Department of Fish and Game or
    U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?
b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any                  1,2-MapN1,                                                        X
    riparian habitat or other sensitive natural              5
    community identified in local or regional plans,
    policies, regulations, including federally
    protected wetlands as defined by Section 404
    of the Clean Water Act (including, but not
    limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.)
    through direct removal, filling, hydrological
    interruption, or other means?
c) Interfere substantially with the movement of              1,8-MapN1,                                                        X
    any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife        5
    species or with established native resident or
    migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use
    of native wildlife nursery sites?
d) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances            1,2,3,4,5                                                         X
    protecting biological resources, such as a tree
    preservation policy or as defined by the City of
    Palo Alto's Tree Preservation Ordinance
    (Municipal Code Section 8.10)?
e) Conflict with any applicable Habitat                      1,5                                                               X
    Conservation Plan, Natural Community
    Conservation Plan, or other approved local,
    regional, or state habitat conservation plan?

     DISCUSSION:
     The project area is located within a fully developed urban setting. There are no sensitive plant or
     animal species identified in this area.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                Page 12                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 401
                                                                                                                                        5.b




     E.       CULTURAL RESOURCES
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                      Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No
                                                                                Significant    Significant   Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                             Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                               Mitigation
                                                                                              Incorporated




                                                                                                                                              Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
a) Directly or indirectly destroy a local cultural           1,10                                                                X
   resource that is recognized by City Council
   resolution?
b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the                 1,2-MapL8                                                           X
   significance of an archaeological resource
   pursuant to 15064.5?
c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique                   1,2-MapL8                                                           X
   paleontological resource or site or unique
   geologic feature?
d) Disturb any human remains, including those                1,2-MapL8                                                           X
   interred outside of formal cemeteries?
e) Adversely affect a historic resource listed or            1,2-MapL7,                                                          X
   eligible for listing on the National and/or               10
   California Register, or listed on the City's
   Historic Inventory?
f) Eliminate important examples of major periods             1                                                                   X
   of California history or prehistory?

     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project involves minor construction activities within the public right-of-way that is
     located within a fully developed and previously disturbed area. The proposed project will not create
     any cultural impacts to the affected area. For all projects, if during grading and construction activities,
     any archaeological or human remains are encountered, construction shall cease and a qualified
     archaeologist shall visit the site to address the find. The Santa Clara County Medical Examiner's
     office shall be notified to provide proper direction on how to proceed. If any Native American
     resources are encountered during construction, construction shall cease immediately until a Native
     American descendant, appointed by the Native American Heritage Commission of the State of
     California, is able to evaluate the site and make further recommendations and be involved in
     mitigation planning.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     F.       GEOLOGY, SOILS AND SEISMICITY
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                      Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No
                                                                                Significant    Significant   Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                             Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                               Mitigation
                                                                                              Incorporated
a) Expose people or structures to potential
   substantial adverse effects, including the
   risk of loss, injury, or death involving:
   i) Rupture of a known earthquake fault,                   11                                                                  X
        as delineated on the most recent
        Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault
        Zoning Map issued by the State


     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                  Page 13                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                              Packet Pg. 402
                                                                                                                5.b




        Geologist for the area or based on
        other substantial evidence of a known
        fault? Refer to Division of Mines and
        Geology Special Publication 42.
   ii) Strong seismic ground shaking?                    2-MapN10                                         X
   iii) Seismic-related ground failure,                  2-MapN5                                          X




                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
        including liquefaction?
   iv) Landslides?                                       2-MapN5                                          X
b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss        1                                                X
   of topsoil?
c) Result in substantial siltation?                      1                                                X

d) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is         2-MapN5                                          X
   unstable, or that would become unstable as
   a result of the project, and potentially
   result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral
   spreading, subsidence, liquefaction or
   collapse?
e) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in           2-MapN5                          X
   Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building
   Code (1994), creating substantial risks to
   life or property?
f) Have soils incapable of adequately                    1                                                X
   supporting the use of septic tanks or
   alternative waste water disposal systems
   where sewers are not available for the
   disposal of waste water?
g) Expose people or property to major                    1,5                                              X
   geologic hazards that cannot be mitigated
   through the use of standard engineering
   design and seismic safety techniques?

 DISCUSSION:
 The proposed project includes improvements within the public right of way (sidewalk and road) of a
 fully developed commercial area. Although the project is located in an area with expansive soils and
 has a high potential for surface rupture along fault traces and potential for earthquake-induced
 landslides where sloped, the project scope is limited to improvements at or near the existing grade and
 is anticipated to not be significantly impacted by the existing geologic conditions. The proposed
 project would not create any new geology, soils and seismicity impacts.

 Generally, the City of Palo Alto would experience a range from weak to very violent shaking in the
 event of a major earthquake along the San Andreas or Hayward fault. Although hazards exist,
 development would not expose people or property to major geologic hazards that cannot be addressed
 through the use of standard engineering design and seismic safety techniques, as required by building
 codes. With proper engineering new development is not expected to result in any significant adverse
 short or long-term impacts related to geology, soils or seismicity.

 Mitigation Measures: None Required



 California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II              Page 14            Initial Study

                                                                                                       Packet Pg. 403
                                                                                                                                5.b




     G.       GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                 Sources    Potentially   Potentially    Less Than         No
                                                                        Significant   Significant    Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                   Issues        Unless         Impact
                                                                                      Mitigation




                                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                                                      Incorporated
a) Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either                 1,5,9                                        X
   directly or indirectly, that may have a
   significant impact on the environment?
b) Conflict with any applicable plan, policy or              1,5,9                                        X
   regulation of an agency adopted for the purpose
   of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases?

     DISCUSSION:
     The San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin (SFBAAB) is currently designated as a nonattainment area for
     state and national ozone standards and national particulate matter ambient air quality standards.
     SFBAAB's nonattainment status is attributed to the region's development history. Past, present and
     future development projects contribute to the region's adverse air quality impacts on a cumulative
     basis. By its very nature, air pollution is largely a cumulative impact. No single project is sufficient in
     size to, by itself, result in nonattainment of ambient air quality standards. Instead, a project's
     individual emissions contribute to existing cumulatively significant adverse air quality impacts. If a
     project's contribution to the cumulative impact is considerable, then the project's impact on air quality
     would be considered significant.

     The Bay Area Air Quality Management District's (BAAQMD) approach to developing a Threshold of
     Significance for Green House Gas (GHG) emissions is to identify the emissions level for which a
     project would not be expected to substantially conflict with existing California legislation adopted to
     reduce statewide GHG emissions needed to move us towards climate stabilization. If a project would
     generate GHG emissions above the threshold level, it would be considered to contribute substantially
     to a cumulative impact, and would be considered significant.

     The Thresholds of Significance for operational-related GHG emissions are:
     и For land use development projects, the threshold is compliance with a qualified GHG reduction
     Strategy; or annual emissions less than 1,100 metric tons per year (MT/yr) of CO2e; or 4.6 MT
     CO2e/SP/yr (residents + employees). Land use development projects include residential, commercial,
     industrial, and public land uses and facilities.
     и For stationary-source projects, the threshold is 10,000 metric tons per year (MT/yr) of CO2e.
     Stationary-source projects include land uses that would accommodate processes and equipment that
     emit GHG emissions and would require an Air District permit to operate. If annual emissions of
     operational-related GHGs exceed these levels, the proposed project would result in a cumulatively
     considerable contribution of GHG emissions and a cumulatively significant impact to global climate
     change.

     The BAAQMD has established project level screening criteria to assist in the evaluation of impacts. If
     a project meets the screening criteria and is consistent with the methodology used to develop the
     screening criteria, then the project's air quality impacts may be considered less than significant. Below




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II             Page 15                         Initial Study

                                                                                                                       Packet Pg. 404
                                                                                                                                  5.b




     are some screening level examples taken from the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines, 06/2010
     (Table 3-1, Operational-Related Criteria Air Pollutant and Precursor Screening Level Sizes).

          Land Use Type                                 Operational GHG Screening Size **
          Single-family                                 56 du




                                                                                                                                        Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
          Apartment, low-rise                           78 du
          Apartment, mid-rise                           87 du
          Condo/townhouse, general                      78 du
          City park                                     600 acres
          Day-care center                               11,000 sf
          General office building                       53,000 sf
          Medical office building                       22,000 sf
          Office park                                   50,000 sf
          Quality restaurant                            9,000 sf
                          **If project size is => screening size, then it is considered significant.

     Based on the types of projects that would be considered to have a significant GHG impact, the
     proposed project, due to its limited scope, has been determined to not exceed the significance
     thresholds established by the BAAQMD, and therefore does not have significant impact for creating
     GHG emissions.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     H.       HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
     Note: Some of the thresholds can also be dealt with under a topic heading of Public Health and Safety if the
     primary issues are related to a subject other than hazardous material use.
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                 Sources      Potentially   Potentially    Less Than         No
                                                                          Significant   Significant    Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                     Issues        Unless         Impact
                                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                                        Incorporated
a)     Create a significant hazard to the public or the      1,5                                                            X
       environment through the routing transport, use,
       or disposal of hazardous materials?
b)     Create a significant hazard to the public or the      1,5                                                            X
       environment through reasonably foreseeable
       upset and accident conditions involving the
       release of hazardous materials into the
       environment?
c)     Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous          1,5                                                            X
       or acutely hazardous materials, substances, or
       waste within one-quarter mile of an existing or
       proposed school?
d)     Construct a school on a property that is subject      1,5                                                            X
       to hazards from hazardous materials
       contamination, emissions or accidental release?
e)     Be located on a site which is included on a list      1,2-MapN9                                                      X
       of hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant



     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II             Page 16                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                         Packet Pg. 405
                                                                                                                                      5.b




       to Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a
       result, would it create a significant hazard to
       the public or the environment?
f)     For a project located within an airport land use      1                                                                 X
       plan or, where such a plan has not been
       adopted, within two miles of a public airport or




                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
       public use airport, would the project result in a
       safety hazard for people residing or working in
       the project area?
g)     For a project within the vicinity of a private        1                                                                 X
       airstrip, would the project result in a safety
       hazard for people residing or working the
       project area?
h)     Impair implementation of or physically                1,2-MapN7                                                         X
       interfere with an adopted emergency response
       plan or emergency evacuation plan?
i)     Expose people or structures to a significant risk     1,2-MapN7                                                         X
       of loss, injury, or death involving wildland
       fires, including where wildlands are adjacent to
       urbanized areas or where residences are
       intermixed with wildlands?
j)    Create a significant hazard to the public or the       1,5                                                               X
       environment from existing hazardous materials
       contamination by exposing future occupants or
       users of the site to contamination in excess of
       soil and ground water cleanup goals developed
       for the site?

     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project is minor in scope and does not involve the use, creation or transportation of
     hazardous materials. California Avenue is not designated as an evacuation route nor located within or
     near the wildland fire danger area. The proposed project would have no impacts with regard to public
     safety, hazards and hazardous materials.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     I.       HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY
     Issues and Supporting Information Resources                 Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No
                                                                              Significant    Significant   Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                            Incorporated
a) Violate any water quality standards or waste              1,2,5                                                             X
   discharge requirements?
b) Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or             2-MapN2                                                           X
   interfere substantially with groundwater
   recharge such that there would be a net deficit
   in aquifer volume or a lowering of the local
   groundwater table level (e.g., the production
   rate of pre-existing nearby wells would drop to
   a level which would not support existing land
   uses or planned uses for which permits have



     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                 Page 17                          Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 406
                                                                                                                   5.b




   been granted)?
c) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern         1,5                                             X
   of the site or area, including through the
   alteration of the course of a stream or river, in a
   manner which would result in substantial
   erosion or siltation on- or off-site?




                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
d) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern         1,5                                             X
   of the site or area, including through the
   alteration of the course of a stream or river, or
   substantially increase the rate or amount of
   surface runoff in a manner which would result
   in flooding on- or off-site?
e) Create or contribute runoff water which would             1,5                                             X
   exceed the capacity of existing or planned
   stormwater drainage systems or provide
   substantial additional sources of polluted
   runoff?
f) Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?            1,5                                             X
g) Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard              2-MapN6                                         X
   area as mapped on a federal Flood Hazard
   Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate Map or
   other flood hazard delineation map?
h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area                 2-MapN6                                         X
   structures which would impede or redirect
   flood flows?
i) Expose people or structures to a significant risk         2-MapN8                                         X
   of loss, injury or death involve flooding,
   including flooding as a result of the failure of a
   levee or dam or being located within a 100-year
   flood hazard area?
j) Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?                2-MapN6                                         X

k) Result in stream bank instability?                        1,5                                             X

     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project includes improvements within the public right of way (sidewalk and road) of a
     fully developed commercial area and is not anticipated to create any new hydrology and water quality
     impacts.

     All development is required to comply with building codes that address flood safety issues.
     Development projects are required to implement Best Management Practices (BMPs) for construction
     activities as specified by the California Storm Water Best Management Practices Handbook (CASQA,
     2003) and/or the Manual of Standards for Erosion and Sediment Control Measures (ABAG, 1995).
     The BMPs include measures guiding the management and operation of construction sites to control
     and minimize the potential contribution of pollutants to storm runoff from these areas. These measures
     address procedures for controlling erosion and sedimentation and managing all aspects of the
     construction process to ensure control of potential water pollution sources. All development projects
     must comply with all City, State and Federal standards pertaining to storm water run-off and water
     quality.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II             Page 18            Initial Study

                                                                                                          Packet Pg. 407
                                                                                                                                      5.b




     J.       LAND USE AND PLANNING
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                  Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No
                                                                            Significant    Significant   Significant       Impact
                   Would the project:                                         Issues         Unless        Impact




                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                          Incorporated
a) Physically divide an established community?               1,5                                                             X
b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan,               1,2,3,4,5                                                       X
    policy, or regulation of an agency with
    jurisdiction over the project (including, but not
    limited to the general plan, specific plan, local
    coastal program, or zoning ordinance) adopted
    for the purpose of avoiding or mitigating an
    environmental effect?
c) Conflict with any applicable habitat                      1,2                                                             X
    conservation plan or natural community
    conservation plan?
d) Substantially adversely change the type or                1,5                                                             X
    intensity of existing or planned land use in the
    area?
e) Be incompatible with adjacent land uses or with           1,5                                                             X
    the general character of the surrounding area,
    including density and building height?
f) Conflict with established residential,                    1,5                                                             X
    recreational, educational, religious, or scientific
    uses of an area?
g) Convert prime farmland, unique farmland, or               1,2,3                                                           X
    farmland of statewide importance (farmland) to
    non-agricultural use?

     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project involves minor work in the public right-of-way (sidewalk) and does not impact the
     existing land uses along California Avenue. The improvements are intended to compliment and enhance the
     existing commercial district and are not anticipated to create any land use impacts.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     K.       MINERAL RESOURCES
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                  Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than        No Impact
                                                                            Significant    Significant   Significant
                   Would the project:                                         Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                          Incorporated
a) Result in the loss of availability of a known             1,2                                                             X
   mineral resource that would be of value to the
   region and the residents of the state?
b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally-          1,2                                                             X
   important mineral resource recovery site
   delineated on a local general plan, specific plan
   or other land use plan?




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II               Page 19                          Initial Study

                                                                                                                          Packet Pg. 408
                                                                                                                                        5.b




     DISCUSSION:
     The City of Palo Alto has been classified by the California Department of Conservation (DOC),
     Division of Mines and Geology (DMG) as a Mineral Resource Zone 1 (MRZ-1). This designation
     signifies that there are no aggregate resources in the area. The DMG has not classified the City for
     other resources. There is no indication in the 2010 Comprehensive Plan that there are locally or




                                                                                                                                              Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
     regionally valuable mineral resources within the City of Palo Alto.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required.


     L.       NOISE
     Issues and Supporting Information Resources                 Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than        No Impact
                                                                              Significant    Significant   Significant
                   Would the project:                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                            Incorporated
a)     Exposure of persons to or generation of noise         1,2,12                                            X
       levels in excess of standards established in the
       local general plan or noise ordinance, or
       applicable standards of other agencies?
b)     Exposure of persons to or generation of               1,2,12                                            X
       excessive ground borne vibrations or ground
       borne noise levels?
c)     A substantial permanent increase in ambient           1,2,12                                                            X
       noise levels in the project vicinity above levels
       existing without the project?
d)     A substantial temporary or periodic increase in       1,2,12                                            X
       ambient noise levels in the project vicinity
       above levels existing without the project?
e)     For a project located within an airport land use      1                                                                 X
       plan or, where such a plan has not been
       adopted, would the project expose people
       residing or working in the project area to
       excessive noise levels?
f)     For a project within the vicinity of a private        1                                                                 X
       airstrip, would the project expose people
       residing or working in the project area to
       excessive noise levels?
g)    Cause the average 24 hour noise level (Ldn) to         1                                                                 X
       increase by 5.0 decibels (dB) or more in an
       existing residential area, even if the Ldn would
       remain below 60 dB?
h)    Cause the Ldn to increase by 3.0 dB or more in         1                                                                 X
       an existing residential area, thereby causing the
       Ldn in the area to exceed 60 dB?
i)    Cause an increase of 3.0 dB or more in an              1                                                                 X
       existing residential area where the Ldn
       currently exceeds 60 dB?
j)    Result in indoor noise levels for residential          1                                                                 X
       development to exceed an Ldn of 45 dB?
k)    Result in instantaneous noise levels of greater        1                                                                 X
       than 50 dB in bedrooms or 55 dB in other
       rooms in areas with an exterior Ldn of 60 dB or
       greater?


     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                 Page 20                          Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 409
                                                                                                                                        5.b




 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                     Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than        No Impact
                                                                              Significant    Significant   Significant
                   Would the project:                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                            Incorporated
l) Generate construction noise exceeding the                 1,12                                                              X
    daytime background Leq at sensitive receptors




                                                                                                                                              Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
    by 10 dBA or more?

     DISCUSSION:
     All development, including construction activities, must comply with the City's Noise Ordinance
     (PAMC Chapter 9.10), which restricts the timing and overall noise levels associated with construction
     activity. Short-term temporary construction noise that complies with the Noise Ordinance would result
     in impacts that are expected to be less than significant. The project is located in busy commercial
     district with an active train station in the immediate vicinity; the existing noise conditions are not quiet
     and the temporary construction activities will not create any new significant noise impacts.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     M.       POPULATION AND HOUSING
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                     Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than        No Impact
                                                                              Significant    Significant   Significant
                   Would the project:                                           Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                             Mitigation
                                                                                            Incorporated
a)    Induce substantial population growth in an             1                                                                 X
      area, either directly (for example, by proposing
      new homes and businesses) or indirectly (for
      example, through extension of roads or other
      infrastructure)?
b)    Displace substantial numbers of existing               1                                                                 X
      housing, necessitating the construction of
      replacement housing elsewhere?
c)    Displace substantial numbers of people,                1                                                                 X
      necessitating the construction of replacement
      housing elsewhere?
d)    Create a substantial imbalance between                 1                                                                 X
      employed residents and jobs?
e)    Cumulatively exceed regional or local                  1                                                                 X
      population projections?


     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project includes improvements within the public right of way (sidewalk and road) of a
     fully developed commercial area and does not encourage development and therefore will not create any
     new population and housing impacts.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                 Page 21                          Initial Study

                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 410
                                                                                                                                             5.b




     N.       PUBLIC SERVICES
 Issues and Supporting Information Resources                         Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than         No Impact
                                                                                  Significant    Significant   Significant
                   Would the project:                                               Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                                 Mitigation
                                                                                                Incorporated




                                                                                                                                                   Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
Would the project result in substantial adverse
physical impacts associated with the provision of
new or physically altered governmental facilities,
need for new or physically altered governmental
facilities, the construction of which could cause
significant environmental impacts, in order to
maintain acceptable service ratios, response times
or other performance objectives for any of the
public services:
     a) Fire protection?                                         1                                                                  X
     b) Police protection?                                       1                                                                  X
     c) Schools?                                                 1                                                                  X
     d) Parks?                                                   1                                                                  X
     e) Other public facilities?                                 1                                                                  X

     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project includes improvements within the public right of way (sidewalk and road) of a
     fully developed commercial area and does not encourage growth and development and is not
     anticipated to generate new users as to create impacts to the existing public services for the City.

     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     O.       RECREATION
Issues and Supporting Information Resources                      Sources          Potentially    Potentially   Less Than         No Impact
                                                                                  Significant    Significant   Significant
                  Would the project:                                                Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                                 Mitigation
                                                                                                Incorporated
a) Would the project increase the use of                     1                                                                      X
   existing neighborhood and regional parks or
   other recreational facilities such that
   substantial physical deterioration of the
   facility would occur or be accelerated?
b) Does the project include recreational                     1                                                                      X
   facilities or require the construction or
   expansion of recreational facilities which
   might have an adverse physical effect on the
   environment?


     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project includes improvements within the public right of way (sidewalk and road) of a
     fully developed commercial area and does not encourage growth and development in the City and is
     not anticipated to generate new users as to create impacts to the existing City recreational facilities.




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                     Page 22                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                                 Packet Pg. 411
                                                                                                                                         5.b




     Mitigation Measures: None Required


         P.        TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC
Issues and Supporting Information Resources                    Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than           No Impact




                                                                                                                                               Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                                                                            Significant    Significant   Significant
                  Would the project:                                          Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                          Incorporated
a) Exceed the capacity of the existing                       1,5,6,8                                     X
   circulation system, based on an applicable
   measure of effectiveness (as designated in a
   general plan policy, ordinance, etc.), taking
   into account all relevant components of the
   circulation system, including but not limited
   to intersections, streets, highways and
   freeways, pedestrian and bicycle paths, and
   mass transit?
b) Conflict with an applicable congestion                    1,5,6,8                                     X
   management program, including but not
   limited to level of service standards and
   travel demand measures, or other standards
   established by the county congestion
   management agency for designated roads or
   highways?
c) Result in change in air traffic patterns,                 1,5,6,8                                     X
   including either an increase in traffic levels
   or a change in location that results in
   substantial safety risks?
d) Substantially increase hazards due to a                   1,5,6,8                                     X
   design feature (e.g., sharp curves or
   dangerous intersections) or incompatible
   uses (e.g., farm equipment)?
e) Result in inadequate emergency access?                    1,5,6,8                                     X

f)     Result in inadequate parking capacity?                1,5,6,8                                                            X

g) Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or                 1,2,5,6,8                                                          X
    programs supporting alternative
    transportation (e.g., pedestrian, transit &
    bicycle facilities)?
h) Cause a local (City of Palo Alto) intersection            1,5,6,8                                     X
    to deteriorate below Level of Service (LOS)
    D and cause an increase in the average
    stopped delay for the critical movements by
    four seconds or more and the critical
    volume/capacity ratio (V/C) value to increase
    by 0.01 or more?
i) Cause a local intersection already operating at           1,5,6,8                                     X
    LOS E or F to deteriorate in the average
    stopped delay for the critical movements by
    four seconds or more?
j) Cause a regional intersection to deteriorate              1,5,6,8                                     X
    from an LOS E or better to LOS F or cause
    critical movement delay at such an



     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II               Page 23                             Initial Study

                                                                                                                             Packet Pg. 412
                                                                                                                5.b




    intersection already operating at LOS F to
    increase by four seconds or more and the
    critical V/C value to increase by 0.01 or
    more?
k) Cause a freeway segment to operate at LOS F           1,5,6,8                                          X
    or contribute traffic in excess of 1% of




                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
    segment capacity to a freeway segment
    already operating at LOS F?
l) Cause any change in traffic that would                1,5,6,8                   X
    increase the Traffic Infusion on Residential
    Environment (TIRE) index by 0.1 or more?
m) Cause queuing impacts based on a                      1,5,6,8                   X
    comparative analysis between the design
    queue length and the available queue storage
    capacity? Queuing impacts include, but are
    not limited to, spillback queues at project
    access locations; queues at turn lanes at
    intersections that block through traffic;
    queues at lane drops; queues at one
    intersection that extend back to impact other
    intersections, and spillback queues on ramps.
n) Impede the development or function of                 1,5,6,8                   x
    planned pedestrian or bicycle facilities?
o) Impede the operation of a transit system as a         1,5,6,8                   X
    result of congestion?
p) Create an operational safety hazard?                  1,5,6,8                   x


 DISCUSSION:
 The proposed project would reduce the number of travel lanes on California Avenue between El
 Camino Real and Park Boulevard from four travel lanes to two. In addition to a traffic analysis, an
 operations and queue analysis of key intersections along California Avenue was completed as part of
 the traffic analysis for the project and is attached to this Initial Study.

 The additional pavement space provided from the lane reduction would be used for streetscape
 improvements including decorative pavement bands, intersection bulb-outs, and to provide additional
 on-street parking supply. Most of the parking spaces would be 60-degree angled parking spaces,
 although some parallel parking will also be provided. At higher volume intersections such as El
 Camino Real & California Avenue and Birch Street & California Avenue, additional approach lanes
 are proposed to provide additional intersection capacity for traffic. All existing crosswalks for
 pedestrians would be maintained with three additional crosswalks provided at the intersections of Park
 Boulevard & California Avenue. Where bulb-out improvements are proposed, existing crosswalk
 lengths would be reduced to improve pedestrian operations. The project would also enhance the
 existing California Avenue Bike Route with the addition of Sharrows stenciled onto the pavement.

 The proposed lane reduction was reviewed in accordance with City of Palo Alto and Valley
 Transportation Authority (VTA) Г Congestion Management Program (CMP) guidelines. According to
 the City of Palo Alto, there are no pending projects or planned projects in the foreseeable future.
 Therefore, traffic volumes on California Avenue between El Camino Real and Park Boulevard will
 remain unchanged with the current land uses. An analysis of intersection Level of Service (LOS),




 California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II             Page 24             Initial Study

                                                                                                       Packet Pg. 413
                                                                                                                5.b




street segment LOS, and intersection queuing was conducted to determine whether the project would
result in any significant adverse impacts under project conditions with the lane reduction.

The intersection LOS analyses show no significant impact from the proposed lane reduction along
California Avenue. The roadway segment LOS analyses also show no significant impact from the




                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
proposed lane reduction along California Avenue. The queue length and overall operations analysis
though did yield several optional improvements to the City's proposed conceptual plan line to help
improve operations under the proposed two-lane condition including:

    At California Avenue the existing two-lane to three-lane westbound approach to the El Camino
    Real intersection may be maintained to help provide adequate storage capacity for at least 200 feet
    from the intersection. This would result in the loss of the 5 new on-street parking spaces along the
    north side of California Avenue but still allows for the maintenance of the existing 12 on-street
    parking spaces in the segment providing for no overall parking loss.

    The proposed crosswalk additions at the intersections of California Avenue & Park Boulevard
    should be reviewed to ensure that wheelchair ramps can be installed in accordance with American
    Disabilities Act requirements.

    The City's proposed California Avenue plan line concept proposes to maintain the existing two-
    lane westbound approach at Birch Street. Two lanes are also proposed for maintenance
    immediately west of Birch Street approaching the midblock crosswalk west of the Birch Street
    intersection. To eliminate the need for lane merging along California Avenue, the westbound curb
    lane may be converted to a dedicated right turn only lane to northbound Birch Street.

    The City's proposed California Avenue plan line concept also proposed to maintain the existing
    two receiving lanes for eastbound California Avenue at El Camino Real. Only one receiving lane
    is required because at any given time only one lane from either the west side of El Camino Real,
    the southbound left turn approach of El Camino Real, or the northbound right turn approach of El
    Camino Real feed traffic onto California Avenue. The existing curb lane approaching the first
    midblock crosswalk of the project area may be removed to eliminate the need for lane merging.
    The curb lane can be converted to a bus duckout for the existing Stanford Marguerite shuttle stop
    at the intersection. This design would eliminate a stopped bus from blocking through traffic and
    help to avoid operations impacts to the El Camino Real & California Avenue intersection.

    Three proposed on-street parking segments on California Avenue do not meet the City's existing
    parking standards. Their adjacent lane widths are too narrow for vehicles to back out of angled
    parking spaces. To comply with the City's parking standards, these segments could be
    reconfigured to 45-degree parking stalls. The three parking segments are as follows:

    o    The proposed four angled parking spaces in the same location of the proposed Optional
         Outside Seating/Community Stage area on the south side of California Avenue between Ash
         Street and the mid-block crosswalk immediately west of Ash Street. Changing these parking
         spaces from 60-degrees to 45-degrees does not result in a loss of proposed on-street parking
         spaces within this street segment.




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II   Page 25                        Initial Study

                                                                                                       Packet Pg. 414
                                                                                                                                       5.b




          o   The proposed six angled parking spaces along the north side of California Avenue between
              Park Boulevard and the driveway entrance to the Molly Stone market. Changing these parking
              spaces from 60-degrees to 45-degrees results in the loss of one new parking space providing
              five spaces instead. This is still one space more than the existing four parking spaces under
              existing conditions.




                                                                                                                                             Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
          o   The proposed eight angled parking spaces along the south side of California Avenue between
              Park Boulevard (East) and Park Boulevard (West). Changing these parking spaces from 60-
              degrees to 45-degrees results in the loss of two new parking spaces providing six spaces
              instead. This is still one space more than the existing five parking spaces under existing
              conditions.

     Mitigation: None Required


     Q.       UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS
Issues and Supporting Information Resources                    Sources      Potentially    Potentially   Less Than         No Impact
                                                                            Significant    Significant   Significant
                  Would the project:                                          Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                           Mitigation
                                                                                          Incorporated
a)     Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of           1,5                                                              X
       the applicable Regional Water Quality
       Control Board?
b)     Require or result in the construction of new          1,5                                                              X
       water or wastewater treatment facilities or
       expansion of existing facilities, the
       construction of which could cause significant
       environmental effects?
c)     Require or result in the construction of new          1,5                                                              X
       storm water drainage facilities or expansion
       of existing facilities, the construction of
       which could cause significant environmental
       effects?
d)     Have sufficient water supplies available to           1,5                                                              X
       serve the project from existing entitlements
       and resources, or are new or expanded
       entitlements needed?
e)     Result in a determination by the wastewater           1,5                                                              X
       treatment provider which serves or may
       serve the project that it has inadequate
       capacity to serve the project's projected
       demand in addition to the provider's existing
       commitments?
f)     Be served by a landfill with sufficient               1,5                                                              X
       permitted capacity to accommodate the
       project's solid waste disposal needs?
g)     Comply with federal, state, and local statutes        1,5                                                              X
       and regulations related to solid waste?
h)     Result in a substantial physical deterioration        1,5                                                              X
       of a public facility due to increased use as a
       result of the project?



     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II               Page 26                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                           Packet Pg. 415
                                                                                                                                          5.b




     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed project does not encourage growth and development and therefore no increase in the
     demand on existing utilities and service systems or impacts to these services are expected.




                                                                                                                                                Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
     Mitigation Measures: None Required


     R.       MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE
Issues and Supporting Information Resources                      Sources       Potentially    Potentially   Less Than         No Impact
                                                                               Significant    Significant   Significant
                  Would the project:                                             Issues         Unless        Impact
                                                                                              Mitigation
                                                                                             Incorporated
a) Does the project have the potential to                    1,2,3,4,7,10                                       X
   degrade the quality of the environment,
   substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or
   wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife
   population to drop below self-sustaining
   levels, threaten to eliminate a plant or animal
   community, reduce the number or restrict the
   range of a rare or endangered plant or animal
   or eliminate important examples of the major
   periods of California history or prehistory?
b) Does the project have impacts that are                    1                                                  X
   individually limited, but cumulatively
   considerable? ("Cumulatively considerable"
   means that the incremental effects of a
   project are considerable when viewed in
   connection with the effects of past projects,
   the effects of other current projects, and the
   effects of probable future projects)?
c) Does the project have environmental effects               1,5                                                x
   which will cause substantial adverse effects
   on human beings, either directly or
   indirectly?


     DISCUSSION:
     The proposed improvements are anticipated to transform California Avenue between El Camino Real and
     California Avenue Caltrain station into a community corridor with transit, bicycle and pedestrian focused
     transportation treatments; renovate the California Avenue Caltrain Plaza into a vibrant hub for bicycle
     commuters and visitors; and provide best practice pedestrian-scaled improvements throughout the corridor
     to spur on going economic development activity and growth. As discussed in the Biological Resources
     section, this project does not impact sensitive wildlife or plant habitats. The goal of the project is intended
     to enhance the visitor's experience and create an inviting and welcoming commercial district.

     The project's cumulative impacts are limited to the GHG emissions. A project of this minor scope is not
     anticipated to create cumulatively considerable impacts of any other nature. See the Greenhouse Gas
     Emissions section for further discussion.




     California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II                  Page 27                           Initial Study

                                                                                                                              Packet Pg. 416
                                                                                                          5.b




SOURCE REFERENCES

1. Project Planner's knowledge of the site and the proposed project
2. Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan, 1998-2010
3. Palo Alto Municipal Code, Title 18 Г Zoning Ordinance




                                                                                                                Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
4. Palo Alto Tree Technical Manual, Municipal Code Chapter 8.10.030, June 2001
5. Project Plans
6. Project Transportation Engineer's knowledge of the site and the proposed project
7. Not used
8. Traffic Impact Analysis, prepared by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, 12/14/2010
9. California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines, June 2010 (BAAQMD)
10. Palo Alto Historic Resources Inventory
11. Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Map
12. Palo Alto Municipal Code, Section 9.10-Noise Ordinance


ATTACHMENTS
(available on the City of Palo Alto web page: www.cityofpaloalto.org/calave )

A. Project Plans
B. Traffic Impact Analysis, 12/14/2010
C. MTC Capital Grant Application, 10/04/2010




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II   Page 28                  Initial Study

                                                                                                 Packet Pg. 417
                                                                                                                 5.b




DETERMINATION

On the basis of this initial evaluation:




                                                                                                                       Attachment: Attachment B: Negative Declaration and Initial Study (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the                       X
environment, and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.


I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the
project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED
NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.


I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.


I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or
"potentially significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one
effect: 1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal
standards, and 2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis
as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required,
but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.

I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
environment, because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately
in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and
(b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE
DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the
proposed project, nothing further is required.




___________________________________                           _________________________
Project Planner                                               Date




California Avenue Streetscape Improvements Г Phase II   Page 29                         Initial Study

                                                                                                        Packet Pg. 418
                                                                 5.c
 




    California Avenue Lane Reduction




                                                                       Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
    Transportation Impact Analysis


    Prepared for:

    City of Palo Alto

    December 14, 2010




    Hexagon Office: 111 W. St. John Street, Suite 850
    San Jose, CA 95113
    Hexagon Job Number: 10BW15
    Phone: 408.971.6100
    Document Name: California Av.doc




                                                        Packet Pg. 419
                                                                                                                                                          5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                                                                                     


Table of Contents
Executive Summary....................................................................................................................................ii 
1.    Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 5 
2.    Existing Conditions ....................................................................................................................... 13 
3.    Project Conditions......................................................................................................................... 24 




                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
4.    Conclusion .................................................................................................................................... 38 

Appendices
Appendix A:             Traffic Counts
Appendix B:             Level of Service Calculations

List of Tables
Table 1         Signalized Intersection LOS based on Delay............................................................................. 9
Table 2         Unsignalized Intersection LOS Based on Delay ...................................................................... 10
Table 3         Roadway Segment LOS based on Volume-to-Capacity Ratio................................................. 11
Table 4         Existing Intersection Levels of Service..................................................................................... 20
Table 5         Existing Roadway Segment Level of Service........................................................................... 21
Table 6         Existing Queues on California Avenue..................................................................................... 22
Table 7         Project Intersection Level of Service........................................................................................ 27
Table 8         Roadway Segment LOS with California Avenue Lane Reduction ........................................... 28
Table 9         Queuing Analysis Г AM Peak Hour.......................................................................................... 30
Table 10        Queuing Analysis Г Midday Peak Hour.................................................................................... 31
Table 11        Queuing Analysis Г PM Peak Hour .......................................................................................... 32


List of Figures
Figure 1             Project Location and Study Intersections .............................................................................. 7
Figure 2             Project Location Aerial ........................................................................................................... 8
Figure 3             Existing Intersection Lane Configurations ........................................................................... 15
Figure 4             Existing Roadway Segment ADT......................................................................................... 16
Figure 5             Existing Peak-Hour Traffic Volumes .................................................................................... 17
Figure 6             Existing Peak-Hour Bicycle Volumes................................................................................... 18
Figure 7             Existing Peak-Hour Pedestrian Volumes............................................................................. 19
Figure 8             Proposed California Avenue Improvements ........................................................................ 25
Figure 9             Project Intersection Lane Configurations............................................................................. 26
Figure 10            Alternate Extended Queue Storage Design at El Camino Real .......................................... 33
Figure 11            Alternate Westbound Lane Configuration at Birch Street.................................................... 35
Figure 12            Alternate 45-Degree Parking Design between the Park Boulevard Intersections ............... 37




                                                                                                                                       i | Page 

                                                                                                                                           Packet Pg. 420
                                                                                                  5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                         




                                                                                                        Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
Executive Summary
This report presents the results of the transportation impact analysis conducted for the
proposed California Avenue lane reduction in Palo Alto, California. The proposed project
would reduce the number of travel lanes on California Avenue between El Camino Real
and Park Boulevard from four travel lanes to two. An operations and queue analysis of key
intersections along California Avenue is also provided.
The additional pavement space provided from the lane reduction would be used for
streetscape improvements including decorative pavement bands, intersection bulb-outs,
and to provide additional on-street parking supply. Most of the parking spaces would be
60-degree angled parking spaces, although some parallel parking will also be provided. At
higher volume intersections such as El Camino Real & California Avenue and Birch Street
& California Avenue, additional approach lanes are proposed to provide additional
intersection capacity for traffic. All existing crosswalks for pedestrians would be maintained
with three additional crosswalks provided at the intersections of Park Boulevard &
California Avenue. Where bulb-out improvements are proposed, existing crosswalk
lengths would be reduced to improve pedestrian operations. The project would also
enhance the existing California Avenue Bike Route with the addition of Sharrows stenciled
onto the pavement.
The proposed lane reduction was reviewed in accordance with City of Palo Alto and Valley
Transportation Authority (VTA) Г Congestion Management Program (CMP) guidelines.
According to the City of Palo Alto, there are no pending projects or planned projects in the
foreseeable future. Therefore, traffic volumes on California Avenue between El Camino
Real and Park Boulevard will remain unchanged with the current land uses. An analysis of
intersection Level of Service (LOS), street segment LOS, and intersection queuing was
conducted to determine whether the project would result in any significant adverse impacts
under project conditions with the lane reduction.
The intersection LOS analyses show no significant impact from the proposed lane
reduction along California Avenue. The roadway segment LOS analyses also show no
significant impact from the proposed lane reduction along California Avenue. The queue
length and overall operations analysis though did yield several optional improvements to
the City's proposed conceptual plan line to help improve operations under the proposed
two-lane condition including:
    и   At California Avenue the existing two-lane to three-lane westbound approach to the
        El Camino Real intersection may be maintained to help provide adequate storage


                                                                              ii | Page 

                                                                                         Packet Pg. 421
                                                                                                    5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                           


        capacity for at least 200 feet from the intersection. This would result in the loss of
        the 5 new on-street parking spaces along the north side of California Avenue but
        still allows for the maintenance of the existing 12 on-street parking spaces in the
        segment providing for no overall parking loss.




                                                                                                          Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
    и   The proposed crosswalk additions at the intersections of California Avenue & Park
        Boulevard should be reviewed to ensure that wheelchair ramps can be installed in
        accordance with American Disabilities Act requirements.

    и   The City's proposed California Avenue plan line concept proposes to maintain the
        existing two-lane westbound approach at Birch Street. Two lanes are also
        proposed for maintenance immediately west of Birch Street approaching the mid-
        block crosswalk west of the Birch Street intersection. To eliminate the need for lane
        merging along California Avenue, the westbound curb lane may be converted to a
        dedicated right turn only lane to northbound Birch Street.

    и   The City's proposed California Avenue plan line concept also proposed to maintain
        the existing two receiving lanes for eastbound California Avenue at El Camino
        Real. Only one receiving lane is required because at any given time only one lane
        from either the west side of El Camino Real, the southbound left turn approach of
        El Camino Real, or the northbound right turn approach of El Camino Real feed
        traffic onto California Avenue. The existing curb lane approaching the first mid-
        block crosswalk of the project area may be removed to eliminate the need for lane
        merging. The curb lane can be converted to a bus duckout for the existing Stanford
        Marguerite shuttle stop at the intersection. This design would eliminate a stopped
        bus from blocking through traffic and help to avoid operations impacts to the El
        Camino Real & California Avenue intersection.

    и   Three proposed on-street parking segments on California Avenue do not meet the
        City's existing parking standards providing adjacent lane widths that are too narrow
        for vehicles to back out of angled parking spaces. To comply with the City's parking
        standards these segments could be reconfigured to 45-degree parking stalls. The
        three parking segments are as follows:

            o   The proposed four angled parking spaces in the same location of the
                proposed Optional Outside Seating/Community Stage area on the south
                side of California Avenue between Ash Street and the mid-block crosswalk
                immediately west of Ash Street. Changing these parking spaces from 60-
                degrees to 45-degrees does not result in a loss of proposed on-street
                parking spaces within this street segment.

            o   The proposed six angled parking spaces along the north side of California
                Avenue between Park Boulevard and the driveway entrance to the Molly
                Stone market. Changing these parking spaces from 60-degrees to 45-


                                                                               iii | Page 

                                                                                           Packet Pg. 422
                                                                                                5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                       


                degrees results in the loss of one new parking space providing five spaces
                instead. This is still one space more than the existing four parking spaces
                under existing conditions.

            o   The proposed eight angled parking spaces along the south side of




                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
                California Avenue between Park Boulevard (East) and Park Boulevard
                (West). Changing these parking spaces from 60-degrees to 45-degrees
                results in the loss of two new parking spaces providing six spaces instead.
                This is still one space more than the existing five parking spaces under
                existing conditions.




                                                                             iv | Page 

                                                                                       Packet Pg. 423
                                                                                                  5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                         




                                                                                                        Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
1.
Introduction
This report presents the results of the transportation impact analysis conducted for the
proposed California Avenue lane reduction in Palo Alto, California. The proposed project
would reduce the number of travel lanes on California Avenue between El Camino Real
and Park Boulevard from four travel lanes to two. An operations and queue analysis of key
intersections along California Avenue is also provided.
The additional pavement space provided from the lane reduction would be used for
streetscape improvements including decorative pavement bands, intersection bulb-outs,
and to provide additional on-street parking supply. Most of the parking spaces would be
60-degree angled parking spaces, although some parallel parking will also be provided. At
higher volume intersections such as El Camino Real & California Avenue and Birch Street
& California Avenue, additional approach lanes are proposed to provide additional
intersection capacity for traffic. All existing crosswalks for pedestrians would be maintained
with three additional crosswalks provided at the intersections of Park Boulevard &
California Avenue. Where bulb-out improvements are proposed, existing crosswalk
lengths would be reduced to improve pedestrian operations. The project would also
enhance the existing California Avenue Bike Route with the addition of Sharrows stenciled
onto the pavement. The project study area and study intersections are shown on Figures 1
& 2.

Scope of Study
The proposed lane reduction was reviewed in accordance with City of Palo Alto and Valley
Transportation Authority (VTA) Г Congestion Management Program (CMP) guidelines.
The study included an analysis of traffic conditions for one signalized intersection, six
unsignalized intersections, and the California Avenue corridor from El Camino Real to the
Caltrain Station past Park Boulevard. The study intersections are identified below.
Study Intersections
            1.   El Camino Real and California Avenue (signal)
            2.   Ash Street and California Avenue (3-way STOP)
            3.   Birch Street and California Avenue (4-way STOP)
            4.   Park Boulevard (W) and California Avenue (3-way STOP)

                                                                               5 | Page 

                                                                                         Packet Pg. 424
                                                                                                 5.c
California Avenue Lane Reduction Г Traffic Analysis Report                                        


            5. Park Boulevard (E) and California Avenue (3-way STOP)
            6. Birch Street and Cambridge Avenue (4-way STOP)
            7. Birch Street and Sherman Avenue (4-way STOP)

The segment lane capacity was reviewed for the following roadway segments within the




                                                                                                       Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
project area:
    и   California Avenue between El Camino Real and Ash Street
    и   California Avenue between Ash Street and Birch Street
    и   California Avenue between Birch Street and Park Boulevard (W)
    и   California Avenue between Park Boulevard (W) and Park Boulevard (E)

Traffic conditions were analyzed for three weekday time periods: AM peak-hour (one hour
between 7 AM Г 9 AM), Mid-day peak-hour (one hour between 11:30 AM Г 1:30 PM), and
PM peak hour (one hour between 4 PM Г 6 PM). Traffic conditions were evaluated for the
following scenarios:
Scenario 1: Existing Conditions. Existing traffic volumes were obtained from tube count
            and manual turning movement count data obtained in November 2010.

Scenario 2: Project Conditions. The intersections and street segments were evaluated
            with the proposed lane reductions. Project conditions were evaluated
            relative to existing conditions in order to determine potential project impacts.

Methodology
This section presents the methods used to determine the traffic conditions for each
scenario described above. It includes descriptions of the data requirements, the analysis
methodologies, and the applicable level of service standards.
Data Requirements
The data required for the analysis were obtained from the City of Palo Alto and field
observations. The following data were collected from these sources:
и   existing traffic volumes
и   lane configurations
и   signal timing and phasing (for signalized intersections)
и   existing and future bicycle facilities
и   existing transit service
и   travel time runs




                                                                              6 | Page 

                                                                                        Packet Pg. 425
                                                                                                             5.c


c.aJtfomla Ayeoue Laoe Redyctlon




                                                                                                                   Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape
                     ии                                  и Lo
                                                         I   r'




                ;
                                           H             и
                                                         и r'


                                                         ;
                                                         ~
                                                                              j
                                                                              &




LEGEND
 -              = Study Segment I Project Area                                                    Figure 1
     o              = SbJdy Intersection                          Project Location and Study Intersections
     ........
     IIIr...A Wm~o~ T11.111. 011 ~ liON (O~\UlIU1I.INC
                                                                                                    Packet Pg. 426
                                                                 MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                       5.c
                                                                 mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                     916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                     File Name    : ash-california
                                                                                                                                      Site Code    :3
                                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 11/9/2010
cit                                                                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                              0                         CALIFORNIA AV                          ASH ST                         CALIFORNIA AV
                         Southbound                       Westbound                          Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time    RT    TH     LT   App. Total   RT     TH      LT App. Total      RT       TH      LT   App. Total   RT      TH      LT App. Total     Int. Total
            07:00    0     0      0           0     0       4      1         5        0        0       0           0     0        0       0        0              5




                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15    0     0      0           0     0       2      0         2        0        0       0           0     0        2       0        2              4
            07:30    0     0      0           0     0       6      0         6        3        0       0           3     0        5       0        5             14
            07:45    0     0      0           0     0       9      0         9        4        0       0           4     0       10       0       10             23
            Total    0     0      0           0     0      21      1        22        7        0       0           7     0       17       0       17             46

           08:00     0     0      0           0     0       5       0         5       0       0       1            1     0        4       0          4           10
           08:15     0     0      0           0     0       9       0         9       2       0       1            3     0        4       0          4           16
           08:30     0     0      0           0     0      26       0        26       1       0       2            3     0        1       0          1           30
           08:45     0     0      0           0     0       9       0         9       0       0       3            3     0        4       0          4           16
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      49       0        49       3       0       7           10     0       13       0         13           72

           09:00     0     0      0           0     0       7       0         7       0       0       2            2     0        3       0          3           12
           09:15     0     0      0           0     0       7       1         8       0       0       1            1     0        2       0          2           11
           09:30     0     0      0           0     0      11       1        12       1       0       2            3     0        9       0          9           24
           09:45     0     0      0           0     0       7       0         7       0       0       0            0     0        0       0          0            7
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      32       2        34       1       0       5            6     0       14       0         14           54

           10:00     0     0      0           0     0      11       0        11       0       0       1            1     1        2       0          3           15
           10:15     0     0      0           0     0       6       0         6       0       0       0            0     0        2       0          2            8
           10:30     0     0      0           0     0       8       0         8       0       0       0            0     0        6       0          6           14
           10:45     0     0      0           0     0       7       0         7       0       0       0            0     0        0       0          0            7
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      32       0        32       0       0       1            1     1       10       0         11           44

           11:00     0     0      0           0     0       1       0         1       0       0       1            1     0        1       0          1            3
           11:15     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     0        1       0          1            4
           11:30     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       0       0       1            1     0        1       0          1            6
           11:45     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     1        1       0          2            5
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      11       0        11       0       0       2            2     1        4       0          5           18

           12:00     0     0      0           0     0       8       0         8       1       0       0            1     0        2       0          2           11
           12:15     0     0      0           0     0       0       0         0       0       0       0            0     0        4       0          4            4
           12:30     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     0        1       0          1            4
           12:45     0     0      0           0     0       3       1         4       0       0       0            0     0        1       0          1            5
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      14       1        15       1       0       0            1     0        8       0          8           24

           13:00     0     0      0           0     0       2       0         2       0       0       1            1     0        3       0          3            6
           13:15     0     0      0           0     0       2       0         2       1       0       0            1     0        4       0          4            7
           13:30     0     0      0           0     0       6       0         6       0       0       0            0     0        3       0          3            9
           13:45     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        4       0          4            8
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      14       0        14       1       0       1            2     0       14       0         14           30

           14:00     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       1            1     1        3       0          4            8
           14:15     0     0      0           0     0       8       0         8       0       0       1            1     2        4       0          6           15
           14:30     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        2       0          2            6
           14:45     0     0      0           0     0       1       1         2       0       0       0            0     0        3       0          3            5
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      16       1        17       0       0       2            2     3       12       0         15           34

           15:00     0     0      0           0     0       8       0         8       0       0       0            0     1        4       0          5           13
           15:15     0     0      0           0     0      10       0        10       0       0       0            0     0        2       0          2           12
           15:30     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     1        3       0          4            7
           15:45     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        4       0          4            8
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      25       0        25       0       0       0            0     2       13       0         15           40

           16:00     0     0      0           0     0       5       0         5       1       0       0            1     0        4       0          4           10
           16:15     0     0      0           0     0       1       0         1       0       0       0            0     1        3       0          4            5
           16:30     0     0      0           0     0       3       1         4       0       0       1            1     0        7       0          7           12
           16:45     0     0      0           0     0       2       0         2       2       0       0            2     0        5       0          5            9
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      11       1        12       3       0       1            4     1       19       0         20           36

           17:00     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        7       0          7           11
           17:15     0     0      0           0     0       1       1         2       0       0       0            0     0        4       0          4            6
           17:30     0     0      0           0     0       3       1         4       0       0       0            0     1        3       0          4            8
           17:45     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     0        8       0          8           11
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      11       2        13       0       0       0            0     1       22       0         23           36

           18:00     0     0      0           0     0       1       1         2       0       0       0            0     1        7       0          8           10
           18:15     0     0      0           0     0       2       1         3       1       0       0            1     1        9       0         10           14
           18:30     0     0      0           0     0       3       0         3       0       0       0            0     1        6       0          7           10
           18:45     0     0      0           0     0       4       0         4       1       0       0            1     1       10       0         11           16
           Total     0     0      0           0     0      10       2        12       2       0       0            2     4       32       0         36           50

      Grand Total    0     0      0           0     0    246       10       256       18      0       19          37    13     178        0        191          484
        Apprch %     0     0      0                 0    96.1     3.9               48.6      0     51.4                6.8    93.2       0
         Total %     0     0      0           0     0    50.8     2.1       52.9     3.7      0      3.9         7.6    2.7    36.8       0        39.5




                                                                                                                                          Packet Pg. 461
                                                                 MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                         5.c
                                                                 mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                     916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                       File Name    : ash-california
                                                                                                                                        Site Code    :3
                                                                                                                                        Start Date   : 11/9/2010
cit                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                              0                         CALIFORNIA AV                          ASH ST                          CALIFORNIA AV
                         Southbound                       Westbound                          Northbound                          Eastbound
      Start Time    RT    TH     LT   App. Total   RT      TH     LT App. Total      RT       TH      LT   App. Total    RT      TH      LT App. Total      Int. Total
            07:00    0     0      0           0     0      15      2        17        0        0       5           5      2       12       0       14              36




                                                                                                                                                                    Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15    0     0      0           0     0      18      3        21        4        0       8          12      4       17       0       21              54
            07:30    0     0      0           0     0      36      0        36        4        0       8          12      4       15       0       19              67
            07:45    0     0      0           0     0      50      2        52        3        0      11          14      1       17       0       18              84
            Total    0     0      0           0     0     119      7       126       11        0      32          43     11       61       0       72             241

           08:00     0     0      0           0     0      50       2        52       6       0      15           21      5       33       0          38          111
           08:15     0     0      0           0     0      62       1        63       4       0      17           21      6       31       0          37          121
           08:30     0     0      0           0     0      56       3        59       3       0      15           18     12       23       0          35          112
           08:45     0     0      0           0     0      48       2        50       4       0      11           15      4       25       0          29           94
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     216       8       224      17       0      58           75     27      112       0         139          438

           09:00     0     0      0           0     0      56       2        58       5       0       9           14     17       41       0          58          130
           09:15     0     0      0           0     0      40       1        41       5       0      11           16      7       37       0          44          101
           09:30     0     0      0           0     0      51       4        55       1       0       9           10      5       20       0          25           90
           09:45     0     0      0           0     0      42       1        43       4       0      10           14      8       31       0          39           96
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     189       8       197      15       0      39           54     37      129       0         166          417

           10:00     0     0      0           0     0      50       6        56       1       0       8            9      9       34       0          43          108
           10:15     0     0      0           0     0      55       1        56       4       0      11           15      9       33       0          42          113
           10:30     0     0      0           0     0      42      11        53       4       0      10           14     11       30       0          41          108
           10:45     0     0      0           0     0      51       1        52       3       0      13           16      6       41       0          47          115
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     198      19       217      12       0      42           54     35      138       0         173          444

           11:00     0     0      0           0     0      51       4        55       3       0       9           12      8       45       0          53          120
           11:15     0     0      0           0     0      45       2        47       1       0       8            9      4       34       0          38           94
           11:30     0     0      0           0     0      68       7        75       7       0      12           19     26       50       0          76          170
           11:45     0     0      0           0     0      63       7        70      10       0      12           22     25       62       0          87          179
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     227      20       247      21       0      41           62     63      191       0         254          563

           12:00     0     0      0           0     0      72       6        78      11       0      15           26     14       49       0          63          167
           12:15     0     0      0           0     0      77       9        86      14       0      17           31     25       67       0          92          209
           12:30     0     0      0           0     0      75       9        84      12       0      17           29     30       43       0          73          186
           12:45     0     0      0           0     0      66       7        73      13       0      20           33     23       46       0          69          175
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     290      31       321      50       0      69          119     92      205       0         297          737

           13:00     0     0      0           0     0      69       8        77       3       0      16           19     17       37       0          54          150
           13:15     0     0      0           0     0      49       4        53       1       0      14           15     12       39       0          51          119
           13:30     0     0      0           0     0      52       5        57       8       0      18           26     13       42       0          55          138
           13:45     0     0      0           0     0      62       4        66       8       0      14           22      9       49       0          58          146
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     232      21       253      20       0      62           82     51      167       0         218          553

           14:00     0     0      0           0     0      72      11        83       6       0      13           19      9       45       0          54          156
           14:15     0     0      0           0     0      48       7        55       2       0      14           16     16       28       0          44          115
           14:30     0     0      0           0     0      49       0        49       3       0      13           16     10       27       0          37          102
           14:45     0     0      0           0     0      52       3        55       5       0      14           19     11       31       0          42          116
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     221      21       242      16       0      54           70     46      131       0         177          489

           15:00     0     0      0           0     0      48       7        55       5       0      10           15      5       30       0          35          105
           15:15     0     0      0           0     0      43       7        50       1       0      11           12      8       41       0          49          111
           15:30     0     0      0           0     0      43       5        48       9       0      17           26     10       39       0          49          123
           15:45     0     0      0           0     0      48       0        48       5       0       2            7      5       36       0          41           96
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     182      19       201      20       0      40           60     28      146       0         174          435

           16:00     0     0      0           0     0      70       1        71       4       0       7           11     16       39       0          55          137
           16:15     0     0      0           0     0      58       5        63       4       0      11           15     20       41       0          61          139
           16:30     0     0      0           0     0      69       2        71       2       0      12           14     13       46       0          59          144
           16:45     0     0      0           0     0      49       6        55       5       0      15           20     16       34       0          50          125
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     246      14       260      15       0      45           60     65      160       0         225          545

           17:00     0     0      0           0     0      55       7        62       3       0       7           10     20       30       0          50          122
           17:15     0     0      0           0     0      48       5        53       2       0       6            8     24       60       0          84          145
           17:30     0     0      0           0     0      53       8        61       5       0      10           15     14       53       0          67          143
           17:45     0     0      0           0     0      51       4        55       4       0       5            9     10       51       0          61          125
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     207      24       231      14       0      28           42     68      194       0         262          535

           18:00     0     0      0           0     0      54       3        57       5       0       8           13     15       39       0          54          124
           18:15     0     0      0           0     0      60       3        63       3       0      10           13     19       41       0          60          136
           18:30     0     0      0           0     0      51       6        57       8       0      10           18     21       30       0          51          126
           18:45     0     0      0           0     0      53       3        56       5       0       6           11     13       35       0          48          115
           Total     0     0      0           0     0     218      15       233      21       0      34           55     68      145       0         213          501

      Grand Total    0     0      0           0     0    2545     207      2752      232      0     544          776     591    1779       0     2370           5898
        Apprch %     0     0      0                 0     92.5     7.5              29.9      0     70.1                24.9     75.1      0
         Total %     0     0      0           0     0     43.2     3.5      46.7     3.9      0      9.2        13.2      10    30.2       0         40.2




                                                                                                                                            Packet Pg. 466
                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                       5.c
                                                                     mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                         916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                         File Name    : birch-california
                                                                                                                                          Site Code    :4
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                            BIRCH ST                        CALIFORNIA AV                         BIRCH AV                        CALIFORNIA AV
                           Southbound                         Westbound                          Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time     RT     TH     LT    App. Total   RT      TH      LT App. Total      RT       TH      LT   App. Total   RT      TH      LT App. Total     Int. Total
            07:00     1      0       0           1     0        5      0         5        0        0       0           0     0        0       0        0              6




                                                                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15     0      0       0           0     1        5      0         6        1        0       0           1     0        6       1        7             14
            07:30     1      0       0           1     0        3      0         3        0        0       1           1     0        1       0        1              6
            07:45     1      0       0           1     0        9      0         9        0        0       0           0     0       11       3       14             24
            Total     3      0       0           3     1       22      0        23        1        0       1           2     0       18       4       22             50

           08:00      1      0       1           2     3        4       0         7       0       0       0            0     0        3       1           4          13
           08:15      0      0       0           0     2       10       0        12       0       1       0            1     0        9       0           9          22
           08:30      0      1       0           1     2       10       0        12       0       0       0            0     0        6       2           8          21
           08:45      0      0       0           0     0        8       0         8       0       0       0            0     0        4       2           6          14
           Total      1      1       1           3     7       32       0        39       0       1       0            1     0       22       5          27          70

           09:00      0      0       0           0     0       10       1        11       0       1       0            1     0        4       1           5          17
           09:15      0      1       2           3     0       12       0        12       0       1       0            1     0        3       1           4          20
           09:30      0      1       0           1     0       12       0        12       0       1       0            1     1        0       0           1          15
           09:45      1      0       0           1     1        3       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        2       0           2           7
           Total      1      2       2           5     1       37       1        39       0       3       0            3     1        9       2          12          59

           10:00      1      0       0           1     1       10       0        11       0       1       0            1     1        4       1           6          19
           10:15      0      0       1           1     0        6       0         6       0       1       0            1     0        1       0           1           9
           10:30      1      0       1           2     0       10       0        10       0       0       0            0     0        1       0           1          13
           10:45      0      0       0           0     0        2       0         2       0       2       0            2     0        1       0           1           5
           Total      2      0       2           4     1       28       0        29       0       4       0            4     1        7       1           9          46

           11:00      0      1       0           1     0        6       0         6       0       0       0            0     0        1       0           1           8
           11:15      1      0       0           1     1        1       0         2       0       2       0            2     0        2       1           3           8
           11:30      0      0       1           1     0        7       0         7       0       0       1            1     0        6       1           7          16
           11:45      0      0       0           0     1        2       0         3       1       0       0            1     0        6       0           6          10
           Total      1      1       1           3     2       16       0        18       1       2       1            4     0       15       2          17          42

           12:00      0      0       1           1     0        4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        0       1           1           6
           12:15      1      0       1           2     0        2       0         2       0       0       0            0     0        6       1           7          11
           12:30      1      0       0           1     0        2       0         2       0       1       0            1     1        3       0           4           8
           12:45      0      0       0           0     0        3       0         3       0       0       0            0     0        2       1           3           6
           Total      2      0       2           4     0       11       0        11       0       1       0            1     1       11       3          15          31

           13:00      0      4       0           4     0       10       0        10       0       3       0            3     0        5       0           5          22
           13:15      0      7       0           7     0        3       0         3       0       4       0            4     0        3       0           3          17
           13:30      0      4       0           4     0        4       0         4       0       3       0            3     0        3       0           3          14
           13:45      0      0       0           0     0        7       0         7       0       0       0            0     1        2       1           4          11
           Total      0     15       0          15     0       24       0        24       0      10       0           10     1       13       1          15          64

           14:00      2      0       0           2     0        6       1         7       0       1       0            1     0        2       0           2          12
           14:15      0      0       0           0     2        5       0         7       0       0       2            2     0        2       0           2          11
           14:30      1      0       0           1     0        4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        0       0           0           5
           14:45      1      1       0           2     0        0       0         0       0       0       0            0     1        3       0           4           6
           Total      4      1       0           5     2       15       1        18       0       1       2            3     1        7       0           8          34

           15:00      0      2       0           2     0        4       1         5       0       0       0            0     0        3       0           3          10
           15:15      0      3       2           5     0        5       1         6       0       0       0            0     0        4       0           4          15
           15:30      1      1       2           4     0        3       0         3       0       4       0            4     1        3       0           4          15
           15:45      0      2       0           2     0        6       0         6       0       0       1            1     0        7       0           7          16
           Total      1      8       4          13     0       18       2        20       0       4       1            5     1       17       0          18          56

           16:00      1      1       0           2     0        4       0         4       0       2       1            3     0        5       1           6          15
           16:15      0      0       0           0     2        2       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        4       1           5           9
           16:30      0      1       0           1     1        4       0         5       0       0       0            0     0        6       0           6          12
           16:45      1      2       0           3     0        4       0         4       0       0       0            0     0        9       0           9          16
           Total      2      4       0           6     3       14       0        17       0       2       1            3     0       24       2          26          52

           17:00      0      3       1           4     0        2       0         2       0       0       0            0     0       11       0          11          17
           17:15      0      3       0           3     0        5       0         5       0       0       1            1     0       10       0          10          19
           17:30      0      3       0           3     1        7       0         8       0       0       0            0     0        6       0           6          17
           17:45      0      3       0           3     0        1       0         1       0       1       1            2     0        4       0           4          10
           Total      0     12       1          13     1       15       0        16       0       1       2            3     0       31       0          31          63

           18:00      0      2       0           2     0        6       0         6       0       0       0            0     0       10       0          10          18
           18:15      1      2       0           3     2        0       0         2       0       0       0            0     0        9       0           9          14
           18:30      0      0       1           1     0        6       0         6       0       0       0            0     0        7       0           7          14
           18:45      0      0       0           0     0        2       0         2       1       0       0            1     1        7       0           8          11
           Total      1      4       1           6     2       14       0        16       1       0       0            1     1       33       0          34          57

      Grand Total     18   48       14          80    20      246       4       270        3      29       8          40      7    207        20        234         624
        Apprch %    22.5   60     17.5                7.4    91.1     1.5                7.5    72.5     20                   3    88.5      8.5
         Total %     2.9   7.7     2.2        12.8    3.2    39.4     0.6       43.3     0.5     4.6     1.3         6.4    1.1    33.2      3.2       37.5




                                                                                                                                               Packet Pg. 472
                                                                        MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                          5.c
                                                                        mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                            916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                             File Name    : birch-california
                                                                                                                                              Site Code    :4
                                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                           Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                           BIRCH ST                        CALIFORNIA AV                       BIRCH AV                           CALIFORNIA AV
                          Southbound                         Westbound                        Northbound                            Eastbound
      Start Time    RT     TH     LT    App. Total   RT      TH      LT App. Total     RT      TH     LT    App. Total    RT     TH      LT U-turn     App. Total   Int. Total
           07:00     2      0       2           4     2        7      1        10       3        9      8         20       3     11       4      4            22           56




                                                                                                                                                                            Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
           07:15     5      6     11           22     7       15      1        23       6       17    14          37       4      6       4      7            21          103
           07:30     1      3       5           9     6       17      0        23       1       20    15          36       5     11       4      1            21           89
           07:45     4      6       2          12     6       16      0        22       7       42    36          85       1     15       6      4            26          145
            Total   12     15     20           47    21       55      2        78      17       88    73         178      13     43      18     16            90          393

           08:00      8     4       6          18     14      22       0       36       5      67     23          95       5     10      6         1         22           171
           08:15      2     2       6          10     11      19       2       32      13      57     32         102       8     20      3         3         34           178
           08:30      4     6       8          18     18      26       0       44       8      44     34          86       6      9      5         1         21           169
           08:45      6    15       7          28     25      17       3       45      11      37     36          84       6     18      6         1         31           188
           Total     20    27      27          74     68      84       5      157      37     205    125         367      25     57     20         6        108           706

           09:00      6    10       4          20      6      14       0       20       9      27     36          72       6     18      8         1         33           145
           09:15      6     7       5          18      6      16       2       24       5      42     28          75       5      8      6         3         22           139
           09:30      4     8       6          18      5      20       1       26      14      42     15          71      10     22      1         4         37           152
           09:45      5     5       7          17      8      19       1       28       9      42     19          70       9     13     12         0         34           149
           Total     21    30      22          73     25      69       4       98      37     153     98         288      30     61     27         8        126           585

           10:00     11     6       4          21      6      17       3       26      17      42     24          83       7     28     12         4         51           181
           10:15      8    11      11          30      5      21       4       30      13      30     18          61      11     25      9         2         47           168
           10:30      2    14       7          23      5      20       2       27      18      24     13          55       6     17      3         1         27           132
           10:45     10    11       4          25      4      15       3       22       7      36     18          61       9     15      7         3         34           142
           Total     31    42      26          99     20      73      12      105      55     132     73         260      33     85     31        10        159           623

           11:00     13    17       6         36       5      22       3       30      14      24     18          56       6     21      8         0         35           157
           11:15      8    13      10         31       7      20       5       32       8      32     22          62       6     18      8         2         34           159
           11:30     15    13       6         34       5      24       3       32      11      25     28          64       8     26     13         4         51           181
           11:45     13    14       9         36       5      24       1       30      14      37     21          72      15     32      9         4         60           198
           Total     49    57      31        137      22      90      12      124      47     118     89         254      35     97     38        10        180           695

           12:00     17    18      10         45       5      28       4       37      22      32     21          75      11     35     14         3         63           220
           12:15     28    17       9         54       8      24       4       36      11      34     27          72      18     41     18         4         81           243
           12:30     18    21       5         44       7      25       2       34      10      44     24          78      24     35     16         3         78           234
           12:45     18    16       7         41       4      18       3       25      13      21     30          64      16     27     11         1         55           185
           Total     81    72      31        184      24      95      13      132      56     131    102         289      69    138     59        11        277           882

           13:00     16    24       5         45       2      29       3       34       9      33     14          56      12     20     10         3         45           180
           13:15     21    19       8         48       1      24       4       29       8      18     24          50       9     18     11         1         39           166
           13:30     13    20      14         47       5      19       3       27      11      23     26          60       5     19     10         1         35           169
           13:45     13    21      11         45       4      20       4       28       7      26     12          45      15     27     12         0         54           172
           Total     63    84      38        185      12      92      14      118      35     100     76         211      41     84     43         5        173           687

           14:00     19    18       9         46       5      20       8       33      10      24     17          51      11     30     15         0         56           186
           14:15     16    21       5         42       3      12       5       20       9      31     20          60      11     21     13         0         45           167
           14:30      9    18       9         36       5      29       2       36       7      25     16          48       9     28      7         0         44           164
           14:45      8    16       9         33       4      16       3       23       7      30     26          63      12     21     11         0         44           163
           Total     52    73      32        157      17      77      18      112      33     110     79         222      43    100     46         0        189           680

           15:00     13    15      12         40       4      14       5       23       8      26     14          48      10     21      9         0         40           151
           15:15     13    21       2         36       3      14       1       18      10      30     18          58       9     24     14         0         47           159
           15:30     15    13      11         39       7      28       7       42       7      25     19          51       6     19      8         0         33           165
           15:45     14    12      10         36       5      16       2       23      17      30     17          64       9     22     10         0         41           164
           Total     55    61      35        151      19      72      15      106      42     111     68         221      34     86     41         0        161           639

           16:00     20    25       7         52      12      24       1       37      14      25     25          64       3     13     14         0         30           183
           16:15     12    18       7         37       2      17       2       21       7      26     22          55       3     20      9         0         32           145
           16:30     18    15      10         43       5      25       2       32       8      24     21          53      10     20      8         0         38           166
           16:45     17    19      20         56      10      15       0       25       7      26     20          53       5     17     16         0         38           172
           Total     67    77      44        188      29      81       5      115      36     101     88         225      21     70     47         0        138           666

           17:00     18    22       8         48      13      20       3       36      17      26     19          62      10     13      8         0         31           177
           17:15     11    21      11         43       3      12       1       16       5      17     11          33       8     26     13         0         47           139
           17:30     15    23       6         44       5      22       4       31      12      27     14          53       6     15     10         0         31           159
           17:45     18    21      21         60       5      24       4       33      13      22     12          47       9     21      5         0         35           175
           Total     62    87      46        195      26      78      12      116      47      92     56         195      33     75     36         0        144           650

           18:00     12    25      16         53       4      31       4       39      12      24      8          44      18     26      7         0         51           187
           18:15     17    24      13         54      11      17       5       33       6      21     23          50       9     26      9         0         44           181
           18:30     10    10       8         28      13      14       2       29       7      19     16          42       6     23     10         0         39           138
           18:45     10    13       6         29       8      17       0       25      17      21     16          54      10     18     12         0         40           148
           Total     49    72      43        164      36      79      11      126      42      85     63         190      43     93     38         0        174           654

      Grand Total   562    697   395        1654     319     945     123     1387     484    1426    990        2900     420     989   444        66       1919         7860
        Apprch %     34   42.1   23.9                 23    68.1     8.9             16.7    49.2    34.1                21.9   51.5   23.1      3.4
         Total %    7.2    8.9      5          21    4.1      12      1.6     17.6    6.2    18.1    12.6        36.9     5.3   12.6    5.6      0.8        24.4




                                                                                                                                                   Packet Pg. 477
                                                                           MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                            5.c
                                                                           mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                               916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                 File Name    : birch-cambridge
                                                                                                                                                  Site Code    :1
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 11/3/2010
cit                                                                                                                                               Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                            BIRCH ST                          CAMBRIDGE AV                           BIRCH ST                          CAMBRIDGE AV
                               Southbound                         Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time      RT        TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00      0          0       0            0     0     1        0           1         0       1        0            1     0      0       0              0             2




                                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15      0          0       1            1     0     0        0           0         0       0        0            0     0      0       0              0             1
            07:30      0          0       0            0     0     0        0           0         0       2        0            2     0      9       0              9           11
            07:45      3          0       0            3     0     3        0           3         0       0        1            1     0      2       0              2             9
             Total     3          0       1            4     0     4        0           4         0       3        1            4     0     11       0             11           23

            08:00       0         0      0             0      0       3       0          3       0        1       0             1     0       1         1            2           6
            08:15       0         0      0             0      1       1       1          3       0        2       1             3     0       1         0            1           7
            08:30       1         1      0             2      0       2       0          2       1        3       0             4     0       2         0            2          10
            08:45       0         1      0             1      0       2       0          2       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           3
             Total      1         2      0             3      1       8       1         10       1        6       1             8     0       4         1            5          26

            09:00       0         1      0             1      0       1       0          1       0        0       0             0     0       2         0            2           4
            09:15       1         0      0             1      0       2       0          2       0        2       0             2     0       0         0            0           5
            09:30       1         1      0             2      0       0       0          0       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           2
            09:45       0         0      0             0      0       0       0          0       0        2       0             2     0       0         0            0           2
             Total      2         2      0             4      0       3       0          3       0        4       0             4     0       2         0            2          13

            10:00       0         1      0             1      0       2       0          2       0        1       0             1     1       2         0            3           7
            10:15       0         1      0             1      1       0       0          1       0        1       0             1     0       0         0            0           3
            10:30       0         1      1             2      0       1       0          1       0        1       0             1     0       0         0            0           4
            10:45       0         0      0             0      0       2       0          2       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           2
             Total      0         3      1             4      1       5       0          6       0        3       0             3     1       2         0            3          16

            11:00       0         0      0             0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0             0     0       1         0            1           1
            11:15       1         1      0             2      0       0       0          0       0        1       0             1     0       0         1            1           4
            11:30       0         0      1             1      0       0       1          1       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           2
            11:45       0         0      0             0      2       0       0          2       0        0       0             0     0       0         1            1           3
             Total      1         1      1             3      2       0       1          3       0        1       0             1     0       1         2            3          10

            12:00       1         2      0             3      0       1       1          2       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           5
            12:15       0         1      0             1      0       1       0          1       0        0       1             1     0       0         1            1           4
            12:30       0         1      0             1      0       1       0          1       0        2       0             2     0       2         0            2           6
            12:45       1         2      0             3      0       1       0          1       0        3       0             3     1       2         0            3          10
             Total      2         6      0             8      0       4       1          5       0        5       1             6     1       4         1            6          25

            13:00       0        6       0            6       0       0       0          0       0        1       0             1     0       0         0            0           7
            13:15       0        2       0            2       1       2       1          4       1        2       0             3     0       2         0            2          11
            13:30       0        1       0            1       0       0       0          0       0        1       0             1     0       1         0            1           3
            13:45       1        2       1            4       0       7       0          7       1        1       0             2     0       0         0            0          13
             Total      1       11       1           13       1       9       1         11       2        5       0             7     0       3         0            3          34

            14:00       0         1      0             1      0       1       0          1       0        0       1             1     0       0         0            0           3
            14:15       0         1      0             1      0       1       0          1       1        0       0             1     0       0         0            0           3
            14:30       0         5      0             5      0       0       0          0       0        0       1             1     0       1         0            1           7
            14:45       0         2      0             2      1       2       0          3       0        0       0             0     1       1         1            3           8
             Total      0         9      0             9      1       4       0          5       1        0       2             3     1       2         1            4          21

            15:00       1         2      1             4      0       1       0          1       0        1       0            1      0       0         0            0           6
            15:15       0         1      0             1      0       0       0          0       1        5       0            6      0       0         0            0           7
            15:30       0         2      0             2      0       0       1          1       0        3       0            3      0       0         0            0           6
            15:45       0         2      0             2      0       2       0          2       1        2       0            3      0       1         0            1           8
             Total      1         7      1             9      0       3       1          4       2       11       0           13      0       1         0            1          27

            16:00       0         1      0             1      0       0       2          2       0        1       1            2      0       0         3            3           8
            16:15       0         2      0             2      0       1       0          1       0        2       2            4      1       0         0            1           8
            16:30       0         3      1             4      0       0       0          0       1        3       0            4      1       2         0            3          11
            16:45       0         2      0             2      0       0       0          0       0        2       0            2      0       0         0            0           4
             Total      0         8      1             9      0       1       2          3       1        8       3           12      2       2         3            7          31

            17:00       0         0      0             0      0       0       0          0       0        0       0             0     1       2         0           3            3
            17:15       0         2      1             3      2       0       0          2       0        2       0             2     0       3         1           4           11
            17:30       0         1      0             1      0       1       1          2       0        2       0             2     1       0         0           1            6
            17:45       0         4      0             4      1       2       0          3       0        0       0             0     0       2         0           2            9
             Total      0         7      1             8      3       3       1          7       0        4       0             4     2       7         1          10           29

            18:00       0         0      0             0      0       3       0          3       0        2       0             2     0       1         0            1           6
            18:15       0         6      1             7      1       1       0          2       0        0       0             0     0       4         0            4          13
            18:30       0         2      0             2      0       0       0          0       0        0       0             0     1       1         0            2           4
            18:45       0         0      0             0      0       1       0          1       0        0       0             0     0       0         0            0           1
             Total      0         8      1             9      1       5       0          6       0        2       0             2     1       6         0            7          24

      Grand Total      11        64       8          83      10      49       8         67        7      52        8          67       8     45         9          62          279
        Apprch %     13.3      77.1     9.6                14.9    73.1    11.9                10.4    77.6     11.9                12.9   72.6      14.5
          Total %     3.9      22.9     2.9        29.7     3.6    17.6     2.9         24      2.5    18.6      2.9          24     2.9   16.1       3.2        22.2




                                                                                                                                                        Packet Pg. 483
                                                                            MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                            5.c
                                                                            mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                  File Name    : birch-cambridge
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code    :1
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date   : 11/3/2010
cit                                                                                                                                                Page No      :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                            BIRCH ST                           CAMBRIDGE AV                          BIRCH ST                          CAMBRIDGE AV
                               Southbound                          Westbound                            Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time      RT        TH      LT     App. Total    RT    TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT    TH       LT       App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00      1          3       1            5      0      5       0           5         3      8        6          17      1      3       1               5           32




                                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15      1          4       1            6      2      3       4           9         1     10        8          19      2      2       0               4           38
            07:30      1          9       2           12      1      6       3         10          1      8      13           22      0      3       0               3           47
            07:45      3          6       1           10      2      9       2         13          6     22      31           59      2      9       0              11           93
             Total     6        22        5           33      5     23       9         37         11     48      58          117      5     17       1              23          210

            08:00      0          3       1            4       3     12        0        15        5      26      33           64       2      2          0           4           87
            08:15      2          7       6           15       0      7        2         9        8      18      19           45       9      8          1          18           87
            08:30      5         24       1           30       3      8        1        12       12      30      19           61       5      4          0           9          112
            08:45      4         14       3           21       1     11        5        17       13      17      20           50       7      5          1          13          101
             Total    11         48      11           70       7     38        8        53       38      91      91          220      23     19          2          44          387

            09:00       2         9       5           16       1     13        5        19        8      20      12           40       7     10          0          17           92
            09:15       0         3       4            7       4     10        2        16       14      12      10           36       4      5          1          10           69
            09:30       1         7       2           10       5     11        6        22       18       6      22           46       6     10          4          20           98
            09:45       3         6       9           18       3     13        3        19       20       5      14           39       4      9          2          15           91
             Total      6        25      20           51      13     47       16        76       60      43      58          161      21     34          7          62          350

            10:00       3         9       3           15       4     14        6        24       18       7      22           47       7     14          0          21          107
            10:15       2         7       2           11       0     11        5        16       10       6      16           32      10     17          0          27           86
            10:30       2         7       2           11       3     11        3        17       13       6      19           38       9     12          1          22           88
            10:45       1         8       5           14       4     12       11        27       24      13      23           60       2     10          2          14          115
             Total      8        31      12           51      11     48       25        84       65      32      80          177      28     53          3          84          396

            11:00       3         3       1            7       3     14        6        23       15       6      16           37      10     12          1          23           90
            11:15       1         7       1            9       1     15        7        23        9      13      22           44       5     20          1          26          102
            11:30       1         4       3            8       4     21        5        30        5      10      15           30      14     13          0          27           95
            11:45       3         7       3           13       3     22        8        33       14      11      12           37      12     10          0          22          105
             Total      8        21       8           37      11     72       26       109       43      40      65          148      41     55          2          98          392

            12:00       1         7       2           10       2     16        7        25       19      13      17           49      35     20          3          58          142
            12:15       1         7       1            9       6     21        3        30       14       7      10           31      16     16          2          34          104
            12:30       2         9       3           14       3     24        7        34       13       8      15           36      13      9          3          25          109
            12:45       3         1       2            6       8     16       10        34       11      11      14           36       9     13          0          22           98
             Total      7        24       8           39      19     77       27       123       57      39      56          152      73     58          8         139          453

            13:00      2          6       6           14       3     22        9        34       16       5      13           34      16      9          3          28          110
            13:15      2         10       1           13       7     21        7        35       10      17      16           43      16     16          2          34          125
            13:30      3          8       5           16       9     28        8        45        5       5       8           18      11     13          2          26          105
            13:45      3          7       3           13       7     23       10        40       12      15      20           47       7     22          3          32          132
             Total    10         31      15           56      26     94       34       154       43      42      57          142      50     60         10         120          472

            14:00       1         2       4            7       5     27        9        41       14       6      18           38      15     15          0          30          116
            14:15       2         5       4           11       1     20        9        30       11      11      16           38      16     12          1          29          108
            14:30       2        11       2           15       2     27       11        40       19      14      16           49      13     11          2          26          130
            14:45       1         9       5           15       3     23       12        38       17      21      16           54      13      9          1          23          130
             Total      6        27      15           48      11     97       41       149       61      52      66          179      57     47          4         108          484

            15:00      3         19       5           27       4     22       11        37       12      12      18           42       4      7          2          13          119
            15:15      1         11       0           12       3     20       15        38       17      11      10           38       8     13          2          23          111
            15:30      3         16       1           20       3     22       10        35       14      12      18           44       9     17          0          26          125
            15:45      3          5       4           12       4     20        9        33       12      10      11           33      10     21          1          32          110
             Total    10         51      10           71      14     84       45       143       55      45      57          157      31     58          5          94          465

            16:00       1        15       1           17       1     23       14        38       15      14       9           38       8      9          0          17          110
            16:15       1         4       2            7       3     21       10        34       13      10       7           30      17     11          2          30          101
            16:30       3         7       3           13       3     24        8        35       14      18      11           43      12     11          1          24          115
            16:45       2        11       5           18       7     18       13        38       14       6       9           29       8     10          1          19          104
             Total      7        37      11           55      14     86       45       145       56      48      36          140      45     41          4          90          430

            17:00      4         18       3           25       6     23        9        38       15      12      16           43      13     10          0          23          129
            17:15      2          7       0            9       5     28       10        43       10      13      14           37      14      4          0          18          107
            17:30      3         18       2           23       6     20       15        41        3      14      11           28      12      3          2          17          109
            17:45      2         17       7           26       4     18       13        35        3      14      26           43      10      7          1          18          122
             Total    11         60      12           83      21     89       47       157       31      53      67          151      49     24          3          76          467

            18:00       1         7       2           10       5     23        6        34        3      13      13           29      12      6          1          19           92
            18:15       0        16       2           18       2     22        7        31        3      11      14           28      12      4          0          16           93
            18:30       0        11       0           11       5     12        6        23        3       8      12           23      12      5          0          17           74
            18:45       3         7       2           12       5     13        9        27        6       7       9           22      16      6          0          22           83
             Total      4        41       6           51      17     70       28       115       15      39      48          102      52     21          1          74          342

      Grand Total      94       418     133          645     169     825     351      1345     535      572      739        1846     475     487        50        1012        4848
        Apprch %     14.6      64.8    20.6                 12.6    61.3    26.1                29       31       40                46.9    48.1       4.9
          Total %     1.9        8.6     2.7        13.3      3.5     17      7.2      27.7     11     11.8     15.2        38.1      9.8     10         1        20.9




                                                                                                                                                         Packet Pg. 488
                                                                          MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                           5.c
                                                                          mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                              916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                File Name     : birch-sherman
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code     :7
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date    : 11/4/2010
cit                                                                                                                                              Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                            BIRCH ST                          SHERMAN AV                             BIRCH ST                          SHERMAN AV
                               Southbound                         Westbound                             Northbound                         Eastbound
      Start Time      RT        TH      LT    App. Total   RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT    App. Total   RT     TH       LT    App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00      0          0       0            0    0      0        0           0         0       0        0            0    0       0       0             0            0




                                                                                                                                                                               Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15      0          0       0            0    0      1        0           1         0       1        0            1    0       0       0             0            2
            07:30      0          0       0            0    0      0        0           0         1       1        0            2    0       0       0             0            2
            07:45      0          0       0            0    0      0        0           0         0       0        0            0    0       1       0             1            1
             Total     0          0       0            0    0      1        0           1         1       2        0            3    0       1       0             1            5

            08:00      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           1
            08:15      0          0      0             0    1        1       0          2        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           2
            08:30      1          1      0             2    1        0       0          1        0        1       0             1    0       0       0             0           4
            08:45      0          0      0             0    0        1       0          1        0        2       0             2    0       0       0             0           3
             Total     1          1      0             2    2        2       0          4        0        3       0             3    0       1       0             1          10

            09:00      1          0      0             1    0        4       0          4        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           6
            09:15      0          0      1             1    0        0       0          0        1        0       0             1    0       0       0             0           2
            09:30      0          0      0             0    0        2       0          2        0        2       0             2    0       0       0             0           4
            09:45      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           0
             Total     1          0      1             2    0        6       0          6        1        2       0             3    0       1       0             1          12

            10:00      0          2      0             2    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           4
            10:15      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           0
            10:30      0          2      0             2    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           3
            10:45      0          0      0             0    0        1       0          1        1        2       0             3    0       0       0             0           4
             Total     0          4      0             4    0        2       0          2        1        2       0             3    0       2       0             2          11

            11:00      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            11:15      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            11:30      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        1       0             1    0       0       0             0             1
            11:45      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             0
             Total     0          2      0             2    0        0       0          0        0        1       0             1    0       0       0             0             3

            12:00      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             0
            12:15      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            12:30      0          0      0             0    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            12:45      0          0      1             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
             Total     0          1      1             2    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             3

            13:00      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            13:15      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        1        0       0             1    0       0       0             0             2
            13:30      0          0      0             0    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       1             1             2
            13:45      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             0
             Total     0          2      0             2    0        1       0          1        1        0       0             1    0       0       1             1             5

            14:00      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             0
            14:15      1          1      0             2    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             2
            14:30      0          0      1             1    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             2
            14:45      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
             Total     1          2      1             4    0        1       0          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             5

            15:00      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             1
            15:15      0          1      0             1    0        0       1          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0             2
            15:30      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       1             1             1
            15:45      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       1             1             1
             Total     0          2      0             2    0        0       1          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       2             2             5

            16:00      0          4      0             4    1        0       0          1        0        2       0             2    0       3       0             3          10
            16:15      0          0      0             0    0        0       1          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           1
            16:30      0          0      0             0    0        0       1          1        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           1
            16:45      0          1      0             1    0        1       0          1        0        1       0             1    0       0       0             0           3
             Total     0          5      0             5    1        1       2          4        0        3       0             3    0       3       0             3          15

            17:00      0          0      0             0    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           1
            17:15      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       3       0             3           4
            17:30      1          0      1             2    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           3
            17:45      2          0      1             3    0        1       1          2        0        0       0             0    0       1       0             1           6
             Total     3          1      2             6    0        1       1          2        0        0       0             0    0       6       0             6          14

            18:00      0          2      0             2    0        0       0          0        0        1       0             1    0       2       0             2           5
            18:15      0          2      0             2    0        0       0          0        0        2       0             2    0       2       0             2           6
            18:30      0          1      1             2    0        0       0          0        0        1       0             1    0       0       0             0           3
            18:45      0          1      0             1    0        0       0          0        0        0       0             0    0       0       0             0           1
             Total     0          6      1             7    0        0       0          0        0        4       0             4    0       4       0             4          15

      Grand Total       6        26       6          38      3      16        4        23        4       17       0           21     0      18        3          21          103
        Apprch %     15.8      68.4    15.8                 13    69.6     17.4                 19       81       0                  0    85.7     14.3
          Total %     5.8      25.2     5.8        36.9    2.9    15.5      3.9      22.3      3.9     16.5       0         20.4     0    17.5      2.9        20.4




                                                                                                                                                      Packet Pg. 494
                                                                           MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                             5.c
                                                                           mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                               916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                  File Name      : birch-sherman
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code      :7
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date     : 11/4/2010
cit                                                                                                                                                Page No        :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                           BIRCH ST                            SHERMAN AV                            BIRCH ST                           SHERMAN AV
                              Southbound                           Westbound                            Northbound                          Eastbound
      Start Time     RT        TH      LT     App. Total    RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT    App. Total    RT     TH       LT      App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00     0          1       1            2      1       2       0           3         5     16        5          26      0       2       0              2           33




                                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15     0          4       1            5      0       3       2           5         3     27        5          35      2       5       1              8           53
            07:30     0          3       2            5      0       3       3           6         8     45      16           69      0       5       1              6           86
            07:45     0          6       0            6      1       9       1         11          7     74      10           91      0      11       1             12          120
             Total    0        14        4           18      2      17       6         25         23    162      36          221      2      23       3             28          292

            08:00     2          8       4           14       2       4       1          7        9     113      28          150       2     13         1           16          187
            08:15     0          4       1            5       2       2       3          7        8      77      16          101       1     11         1           13          126
            08:30     3         11       3           17       5      12       1         18       14      84      19          117       2     11         1           14          166
            08:45     2          5       8           15       1       7       3         11       31      94      20          145       3      9         2           14          185
             Total    7         28      16           51      10      25       8         43       62     368      83          513       8     44         5           57          664

            09:00     4          7      13           24       4       7       3         14       20      78      15          113       2      8         2           12          163
            09:15     2          9       9           20       0       4       1          5       21      67       9           97       2     10         1           13          135
            09:30     0          9       8           17       6      10       7         23       14      59      17           90       1     10         2           13          143
            09:45     1          7       7           15       2       5       4         11       10      64      24           98       1     20         4           25          149
             Total    7         32      37           76      12      26      15         53       65     268      65          398       6     48         9           63          590

            10:00     1         10       6           17       1       7       2         10       13      42      15           70       1     12         9           22          119
            10:15     1          6       7           14       3       7       3         13       14      49      10           73       2     13         3           18          118
            10:30     3          9       6           18       3      10       3         16        7      55       8           70       2     10         1           13          117
            10:45     3          8      16           27       1      10       8         19       10      60      10           80       4     14         2           20          146
             Total    8         33      35           76       8      34      16         58       44     206      43          293       9     49        15           73          500

            11:00     2         15       7           24       3       4       5         12       10      50      18           78       1     10         3           14          128
            11:15     2          9      10           21       2       8       8         18       17      46      18           81       4     11         6           21          141
            11:30     3         22       8           33       4       6       4         14       10      39      15           64       2     13         7           22          133
            11:45     5          8      13           26       3       6       3         12       14      54      36          104       2     15         7           24          166
             Total   12         54      38          104      12      24      20         56       51     189      87          327       9     49        23           81          568

            12:00     5         12      11           28       5      10       5         20       21      47      22           90       5     24         5           34          172
            12:15     2         19       7           28       5      13       3         21       15      51      16           82       6     21         7           34          165
            12:30     6         10       8           24       5       9       5         19       18      45      12           75       9     15         5           29          147
            12:45     4         22       4           30       6      14       5         25       15      40      12           67       4     17         6           27          149
             Total   17         63      30          110      21      46      18         85       69     183      62          314      24     77        23          124          633

            13:00     3         13      14           30       3       9      10         22       12      42      18           72      10     23         0           33          157
            13:15     0         15       9           24       2       8       6         16       14      59      15           88       6     28         3           37          165
            13:30     2         22       9           33       3       7       4         14       10      45      16           71       9     21         2           32          150
            13:45     4         16      12           32       7       6       0         13       12      48      18           78      13     19         3           35          158
             Total    9         66      44          119      15      30      20         65       48     194      67          309      38     91         8          137          630

            14:00     0         10      11           21       4      10       5         19       15      50      12           77       5     22         6           33          150
            14:15     1         11       9           21       3       7       6         16       11      46      10           67       4     17         7           28          132
            14:30     1         15      10           26       6       9       2         17        7      52       7           66       4     26         5           35          144
            14:45     3         15      16           34       2       8       4         14       11      55       5           71       4     16         4           24          143
             Total    5         51      46          102      15      34      17         66       44     203      34          281      17     81        22          120          569

            15:00     6         18      12           36       3       9       3         15        9      45      11           65       8     22         2           32          148
            15:15     0          9      12           21       2       3       4          9       10      46      14           70       5     18         5           28          128
            15:30     3         11       6           20       5       2       2          9       16      58      19           93       6     12         1           19          141
            15:45     4         15      11           30       2      10       2         14       13      55      18           86       8     15         2           25          155
             Total   13         53      41          107      12      24      11         47       48     204      62          314      27     67        10          104          572

            16:00     0         12       5           17       2       8       3         13        4      54      15           73       2     17         3           22          125
            16:15     3         21       6           30       1       1       6          8        5      43       6           54       6     12         7           25          117
            16:30     1         16      11           28       1       7       7         15       12      42      16           70       1     17         1           19          132
            16:45     4         13       7           24       5       8       4         17       13      52      15           80       1     15         7           23          144
             Total    8         62      29           99       9      24      20         53       34     191      52          277      10     61        18           89          518

            17:00     4         23      11           38       4       5       3         12        7      61      12           80       3     17         1           21          151
            17:15     3         16      12           31       4       7       6         17        8      59      19           86       5     16         3           24          158
            17:30     0         14      16           30       2       8       3         13        6      48      10           64       3     22         3           28          135
            17:45     2         18       8           28       3       4       7         14       10      49      15           74       2     10         0           12          128
             Total    9         71      47          127      13      24      19         56       31     217      56          304      13     65         7           85          572

            18:00     1         11       4           16       3       2       9         14        1      49      13           63       7     15         4           26          119
            18:15     0          6       7           13       4       6       3         13        6      40      11           57       2     16         2           20          103
            18:30     1         24       8           33       3       2       3          8        7      40      10           57       2     16         3           21          119
            18:45     1         18       4           23       1       5       5         11        5      44      14           63       3     17         5           25          122
             Total    3         59      23           85      11      15      20         46       19     173      48          240      14     64        14           92          463

      Grand Total     98       586     390         1074     140     323     190        653      538    2558      695        3791     177     719      157         1053        6571
        Apprch %     9.1      54.6    36.3                 21.4    49.5    29.1                14.2     67.5    18.3                16.8    68.3     14.9
          Total %    1.5        8.9     5.9        16.3      2.1     4.9     2.9       9.9       8.2    38.9    10.6        57.7      2.7   10.9       2.4          16




                                                                                                                                                         Packet Pg. 499
                                                                      MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                      5.c
                                                                      mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                          916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                  File Name     : camino-california-a
                                                                                                                                   Site Code     :2
                                                                                                                                   Start Date    : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                Page No       :1


                                                                    Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                           EL CAMINO REAL                   CALIFORNIA AV                     EL CAMINO REAL                   CALIFORNIA AV
                             Southbound                       Westbound                            Northbound                      Eastbound
      Start Time     RT       TH      LT App. Total   RT      TH       LT App. Total        RT      TH      LT App. Total   RT      TH      LT   App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00     0         2       0         2    0        3       0           3         0      2        0         2    0       0       0           0             7




                                                                                                                                                                      Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15     0         2       0         2    0        4       0           4         0      2        0         2    0       2       0           2           10
            07:30     1         0       0         1    0        7       0           7         0      1        0         1    0      13       0          13           22
            07:45     0         1       0         1    0        8       1           9         0      1        0         1    0       5       0           5           16
             Total    1         5       0         6    0       22       1         23          0      6        0         6    0      20       0          20           55

            08:00     0         1       0         1    0        2        0         2        0       1        0          1    0       5      3            8           12
            08:15     0         0       0         0    0       10        0        10        0       0        1          1    0       5      0            5           16
            08:30     0         0       0         0    0       17        0        17        1       2        0          3    0       2      0            2           22
            08:45     0         0       0         0    0        9        1        10        0       1        0          1    0       2      0            2           13
             Total    0         1       0         1    0       38        1        39        1       4        1          6    0      14      3           17           63

            09:00     0         1       0         1    0       13        0        13        0       3        0          3    0       6      0            6           23
            09:15     0         3       0         3    3        5        0         8        0       0        1          1    1       2      0            3           15
            09:30     0         0       0         0    0       10        0        10        0       2        0          2    0       2      0            2           14
            09:45     0         0       0         0    1        8        0         9        0       1        0          1    0       2      0            2           12
             Total    0         4       0         4    4       36        0        40        0       6        1          7    1      12      0           13           64

            10:00     0         1       0         1    0        3        0         3        0       0        0          0    1       6      0            7           11
            10:15     0         0       0         0    0        4        0         4        0       1        0          1    0       0      1            1            6
            10:30     0         0       0         0    2        9        1        12        0       1        0          1    0       0      0            0           13
            10:45     0         1       0         1    1        2        0         3        0       1        0          1    0       4      0            4            9
             Total    0         2       0         2    3       18        1        22        0       3        0          3    1      10      1           12           39

            11:00     0         1       0         1    1        4        1         6        0       0        0          0    0       4      0            4           11
            11:15     0         1       0         1    0        8        1         9        1       2        0          3    0       2      0            2           15
            11:30     0         3       0         3    0        0        0         0        0       0        0          0    0       2      1            3            6
            11:45     1         0       0         1    0        5        0         5        1       0        0          1    0       5      0            5           12
             Total    1         5       0         6    1       17        2        20        2       2        0          4    0      13      1           14           44

            12:00     0         1       1         2    0        0        0         0        1       0        0          1    0       5      0            5            8
            12:15     0         2       0         2    0        5        0         5        1       0        0          1    0       2      0            2           10
            12:30     0         2       0         2    0        4        0         4        0       0        0          0    0       3      0            3            9
            12:45     0         2       0         2    0        4        0         4        0       3        1          4    0       0      0            0           10
             Total    0         7       1         8    0       13        0        13        2       3        1          6    0      10      0           10           37

            13:00     0         1       0         1    0        7        1         8        0       5        2         7     0       2      0             2          18
            13:15     1         0       0         1    0        5        0         5        1       2        0         3     0       1      0             1          10
            13:30     0         1       0         1    0        1        0         1        1       0        0         1     0       1      0             1           4
            13:45     0         4       0         4    0        8        0         8        0       0        1         1     0       3      0             3          16
             Total    1         6       0         7    0       21        1        22        2       7        3        12     0       7      0             7          48

            14:00     0         2       0         2    0        7        0         7        0       1        0          1    0       3      0            3           13
            14:15     0         5       0         5    2        9        0        11        0       0        0          0    1       4      0            5           21
            14:30     0         0       0         0    0        0        0         0        0       0        0          0    0       1      0            1            1
            14:45     0         3       0         3    0        3        0         3        0       1        0          1    0       2      0            2            9
             Total    0        10       0        10    2       19        0        21        0       2        0          2    1      10      0           11           44

            15:00     0         1       0         1    2        2        0         4        0       1        0         1     0       4      0            4           10
            15:15     0         3       0         3    0        3        0         3        1       1        0         2     0       6      0            6           14
            15:30     0         3       0         3    0        4        0         4        0       1        1         2     2       2      0            4           13
            15:45     0         3       0         3    2        3        3         8        2       3        0         5     0       5      1            6           22
             Total    0        10       0        10    4       12        3        19        3       6        1        10     2      17      1           20           59

            16:00     0         2       0         2    0        2        0         2        0       1        0         1     0       5      0            5           10
            16:15     0         3       0         3    0        2        1         3        0       4        0         4     0       9      0            9           19
            16:30     0         1       0         1    0        2        0         2        0       3        0         3     0       3      0            3            9
            16:45     0         1       0         1    0        2        2         4        1       2        0         3     0       9      0            9           17
             Total    0         7       0         7    0        8        3        11        1      10        0        11     0      26      0           26           55

            17:00     0         1       0         1    0        1        1         2        1       0        0          1    0       6      0            6           10
            17:15     0         2       0         2    3        3        2         8        0       0        0          0    1      15      0           16           26
            17:30     0         1       0         1    0        2        1         3        0       1        0          1    0       7      0            7           12
            17:45     0         2       0         2    1        6        2         9        0       0        0          0    0      10      0           10           21
             Total    0         6       0         6    4       12        6        22        1       1        0          2    1      38      0           39           69

            18:00     0         0       0         0    0        4        1         5        0       0        0          0    3       7      0           10           15
            18:15     0         4       0         4    0        1        1         2        0       0        0          0    2      10      0           12           18
            18:30     0         2       0         2    0        3        0         3        1       2        0          3    1      12      1           14           22
            18:45     0         1       0         1    0        2        2         4        0       0        0          0    0      10      0           10           15
             Total    0         7       0         7    0       10        4        14        1       2        0          3    6      39      1           46           70

      Grand Total      3       70       1        74    18     226       22       266       13       52       7        72     12    216       7         235          647
        Apprch %     4.1     94.6     1.4             6.8      85      8.3               18.1     72.2     9.7              5.1   91.9       3
          Total %    0.5     10.8     0.2      11.4   2.8    34.9      3.4       41.1       2        8     1.1       11.1   1.9   33.4     1.1        36.3




                                                                                                                                             Packet Pg. 505
                                                                                    MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                                    5.c
                                                                                    mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                        916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                          File Name     : camino-california-a
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code     :2
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                                        Page No       :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                               EL CAMINO REAL                             CALIFORNIA AV                        EL CAMINO REAL                         CALIFORNIA AV
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                               Northbound                           Eastbound
      Start Time       RT       TH      LT U-turn   App. Total     RT     TH     LT U-turn App. Total      RT     TH      LT U-turn   App. Total     RT    TH     LT         App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00      14       94       4      0        112        6      6       7      0        19      11    201      10      0        222        5     4       3               12        365




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15      19      145      10      1        175        6      7       4      1        18      11    298       9      0        318        3     1       1                5        516
            07:30      25      174       9      3        211       20     21      10      0        51      14    313      11      2        340       20     4       7               31        633
            07:45      42      218      15      0        275       16     25      10      0        51      21    452      21      1        495        9     3     11                23        844
             Total    100      631      38      4        773       48     59      31      1       139      57   1264      51      3       1375       37    12     22                71       2358

            08:00      28     256      18      1         303       23     24       15     0       62       9     466     16       0        491       25        11       14         50         906
            08:15      67     281      30      2         380       18     29       11     0       58      14     382     23       1        420       24         5        9         38         896
            08:30      47     249      14      2         312       20     32       12     0       64      14     432     19       4        469       20         5       14         39         884
            08:45      51     273      28      0         352       24     19        8     0       51      18     389     29       1        437       25         6       10         41         881
             Total    193    1059      90      5        1347       85    104       46     0      235      55    1669     87       6       1817       94        27       47        168        3567

            09:00      49      257     29      1         336       22      28      21     0       71      21     351     30      6         408       26         6        7         39         854
            09:15      55      203     24      2         284       24      17      13     0       54      24     394     22      3         443       18         3       12         33         814
            09:30      36      172     15      3         226       18       5      14     0       37      19     358     23      6         406       13         8       20         41         710
            09:45      36      255     22      2         315       22      17      15     0       54      30     380     24      8         442       21         4       14         39         850
             Total    176      887     90      8        1161       86      67      63     0      216      94    1483     99     23        1699       78        21       53        152        3228

            10:00      30      215     21      0         266       12       7      13     0       32      29     251     23      3         306       15        12       12         39         643
            10:15      26      272     26      1         325       17       9      18     0       44      20     283     21      8         332       13        14       14         41         742
            10:30      37      213     12      0         262       12       9      14     1       36      10     311     13      3         337       18         6       19         43         678
            10:45      22      299     25      2         348       15       8      21     0       44      19     342     21      7         389        9         3       15         27         808
             Total    115      999     84      3        1201       56      33      66     1      156      78    1187     78     21        1364       55        35       60        150        2871

            11:00      18     255      17      0         290       19       9      12     0       40      33     304     18      8         363       26         3       12         41         734
            11:15      24     273      20      1         318       26      10      19     0       55      31     319     16      6         372       23        13        9         45         790
            11:30      22     309      17      3         351       24      12      19     0       55      28     296     12      3         339       21        17       25         63         808
            11:45      23     350      32      1         406       28       5      20     0       53      41     348     24      5         418       23        22       23         68         945
             Total     87    1187      86      5        1365       97      36      70     0      203     133    1267     70     22        1492       93        55       69        217        3277

            12:00      21     335      29      0         385       20      10     25      2       57      42     314     26      9         391       38        19     41           98         931
            12:15      29     288      40      1         358       23      19     28      2       72      53     267     28     13         361       32        39     31          102         893
            12:30      20     290      29      2         341       17      23     27      4       71      60     332     21     14         427       12        18     31           61         900
            12:45      38     364      42      1         445       33      13     36      0       82      41     331     18     14         404       26        22     24           72        1003
             Total    108    1277     140      4        1529       93      65    116      8      282     196    1244     93     50        1583      108        98    127          333        3727

            13:00      23     302      25      2         352       15      15     25      0       55      37     317     19     16         389       31        17       22         70         866
            13:15      46     411      18      1         476       22      14     40      1       77      37     334     28     15         414       18        11       26         55        1022
            13:30      27     339      18      1         385       33      10     31      0       74      32     349     15     16         412       25         9       17         51         922
            13:45      40     380      21      0         441       20      17     25      1       63      33     358     21     12         424       24        11       10         45         973
             Total    136    1432      82      4        1654       90      56    121      2      269     139    1358     83     59        1639       98        48       75        221        3783

            14:00      22     289      25      2         338       21      10     28      0       59      22     318     26     12         378       24        13       26         63         838
            14:15      30     374      18      3         425       18       7     35      0       60      28     308     20     15         371       23        10       15         48         904
            14:30      30     361      20      1         412       32       7     23      0       62      16     284     23      7         330       24        20       18         62         866
            14:45      31     369      19      4         423       32      11     28      0       71      23     319     28     11         381       12        13       16         41         916
             Total    113    1393      82     10        1598      103      35    114      0      252      89    1229     97     45        1460       83        56       75        214        3524

            15:00      21     330      14      1         366       23      10      16     0       49      14     315     13      4         346       35        10       24         69         830
            15:15      28     373      18      0         419       15       7      14     0       36      31     300     10      9         350       23        14       11         48         853
            15:30      20     431      27      0         478       27       9      26     0       62      16     325     17      6         364       27         9       23         59         963
            15:45      20     389      19      1         429       21      10      22     0       53      28     345     24      3         400       29        13       22         64         946
             Total     89    1523      78      2        1692       86      36      78     0      200      89    1285     64     22        1460      114        46       80        240        3592

            16:00       9     313      18      1         341       34      11     30      0       75      19     282      9      8         318       28         9       19         56         790
            16:15      19     406      18      2         445       17      10     27      0       54      21     284     14      9         328       35        12       16         63         890
            16:30      20     416      24      2         462       28      15     19      2       64      16     332     14      6         368       38        15       27         80         974
            16:45      23     400      23      1         447       25       9     28      0       62      21     331     16      6         374       44         8       28         80         963
             Total     71    1535      83      6        1695      104      45    104      2      255      77    1229     53     29        1388      145        44       90        279        3617

            17:00      20     458      21      2         501       32      10      31     3       76      22     362     13      5         402       43         5     39           87        1066
            17:15      14     413      21      1         449       22       9      24     0       55      39     349     22      7         417       45        25     34          104        1025
            17:30      14     441       7      0         462       25      14      23     0       62      24     344     13      7         388       54        12     38          104        1016
            17:45      13     464      20      1         498       30       5      16     0       51      17     369      8      7         401       42        22     42          106        1056
             Total     61    1776      69      4        1910      109      38      94     3      244     102    1424     56     26        1608      184        64    153          401        4163

            18:00      16     505      15      1         537       30      11      28     0       69      31     395     16      5         447       32        16     38           86        1139
            18:15      11     459      16      3         489       30       8      17     2       57      30     379     10     15         434       41         7     36           84        1064
            18:30      14     433      26      0         473       23       3      12     3       41      27     380     14      5         426       22        10     26           58         998
            18:45       5     342      16      1         364       16       3      15     4       38      28     354      9      4         395       24        11     18           53         850
             Total     46    1739      73      5        1863       99      25      72     9      205     116    1508     49     29        1702      119        44    118          281        4051

      Grand Total    1295    15438    995      60     17788      1056     599     975     26    2656    1225    16147   880    335      18587      1208       550     969        2727      41758
        Apprch %       7.3    86.8     5.6    0.3                 39.8   22.6    36.7      1              6.6    86.9    4.7    1.8                 44.3     20.2    35.5
          Total %      3.1      37     2.4    0.1       42.6       2.5     1.4     2.3   0.1      6.4     2.9    38.7    2.1    0.8       44.5       2.9       1.3     2.3         6.5




                                                                                                                                                                      Packet Pg. 510
                                                                           MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                                   5.c
                                                                           mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                               916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                        File Name    : park E-california
                                                                                                                                                         Site Code    :6
                                                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 11/4/2010
cit                                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                            PARK BL (east)                    From Caltrain Station                            0                       CALIFORNIA AV
                             Southbound                           Westbound                               Northbound                       Eastbound
      Start Time      RT      TH to Caltrain App. Total    RT      TH     U-turn App. Total       RT       TH      LT    App. Total   RT   to Caltrain        LT   App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00      0        0          2          2     4       2          0          6         0       0        0            0    0           4           6          10           18




                                                                                                                                                                                        Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15      1        0          2          3     2       8          0        10          0       0        0            0    0           6           4          10           23
            07:30      0        0        15         15     11       8          0        19          0       0        0            0    0          10           8          18           52
            07:45      6        0        37         43     34       0          0        34          0       0        0            0    0           9          15          24          101
             Total     7        0        56         63     51      18          0        69          0       0        0            0    0          29          33          62          194

            08:00      4        0       14          18     26        4         0         30        0        0       0             0    0           5           9          14           62
            08:15      6        0        4          10      4        8         0         12        0        0       0             0    0           4          12          16           38
            08:30      2        0        2           4     15       25         0         40        0        0       0             0    0           4          18          22           66
            08:45      5        0        0           5     18       13         0         31        0        0       0             0    0           3          23          26           62
             Total    17        0       20          37     63       50         0        113        0        0       0             0    0          16          62          78          228

            09:00      5        0         3          8     17       14         0         31        0        0       0             0    0           3          12          15           54
            09:15      2        0         1          3      7        8         0         15        0        0       0             0    0           2          18          20           38
            09:30      1        0         0          1     12       12         0         24        0        0       0             0    0           3          15          18           43
            09:45      5        0         1          6      9        5         0         14        0        0       0             0    0           8          19          27           47
             Total    13        0         5         18     45       39         0         84        0        0       0             0    0          16          64          80          182

            10:00      3        0         0          3      5        9         0         14        0        0       0             0    0           5           5          10           27
            10:15     12        0         4         16      2        6         0          8        0        0       0             0    0           5           4           9           33
            10:30      3        0         1          4      5       14         0         19        0        0       0             0    0           2           6           8           31
            10:45      2        0         2          4      6        5         0         11        0        0       0             0    0           2           7           9           24
             Total    20        0         7         27     18       34         0         52        0        0       0             0    0          14          22          36          115

            11:00       1       0        5           6      3        9         0         12        0        0       0             0    0           4           9          13           31
            11:15       4       0        2           6      4        1         0          5        0        0       0             0    0           6           2           8           19
            11:30       4       0        6          10      2       10         0         12        0        0       0             0    0           4          11          15           37
            11:45       0       0        1           1      4        6         0         10        0        0       0             0    0           3           5           8           19
             Total      9       0       14          23     13       26         0         39        0        0       0             0    0          17          27          44          106

            12:00       2       0        4           6      1        1         0          2        0        0       0             0    0           3           6           9           17
            12:15       4       0        2           6      4        5         0          9        0        0       0             0    0           4           5           9           24
            12:30       2       0        3           5      4        2         0          6        0        0       0             0    0           2           4           6           17
            12:45       1       0        1           2      2        4         0          6        0        0       0             0    0           5           4           9           17
             Total      9       0       10          19     11       12         0         23        0        0       0             0    0          14          19          33           75

            13:00      6        0         6         12       3       7         0         10        0        0       0             0    0           9           5          14           36
            13:15      4        0         1          5       0       6         0          6        0        0       0             0    0           1           2           3           14
            13:30      1        0         0          1       2       1         0          3        0        0       0             0    0           2           2           4            8
            13:45      3        0         1          4       1       4         0          5        0        0       0             0    0           3           0           3           12
             Total    14        0         8         22       6      18         0         24        0        0       0             0    0          15           9          24           70

            14:00      5        0        9          14      7        4         0         11        0        0       0             0    0           5           2           7           32
            14:15      3        0        1           4      1        2         0          3        0        0       0             0    0           3           1           4           11
            14:30      2        0        7           9      1        4         0          5        0        0       0             0    0           6           3           9           23
            14:45      4        0        2           6      1        3         0          4        0        0       0             0    0           7           5          12           22
             Total    14        0       19          33     10       13         0         23        0        0       0             0    0          21          11          32           88

            15:00     10        0       30          40     30       13         0         43        0        0       0             0    0           2           5           7           90
            15:15      2        0       15          17     30       15         0         45        0        0       0             0    0           6           0           6           68
            15:30      3        0        3           6      5       10         0         15        0        0       0             0    0           5           1           6           27
            15:45      2        0        3           5      3        8         0         11        0        0       0             0    0           8           0           8           24
             Total    17        0       51          68     68       46         0        114        0        0       0             0    0          21           6          27          209

            16:00      3        0        3           6      4        2         0          6        0        0       0             0    0          12           2          14           26
            16:15      6        0        5          11      3        4         0          7        0        0       0             0    0          10           0          10           28
            16:30      3        0        9          12     10        7         0         17        0        0       0             0    0           6           2           8           37
            16:45      7        0        7          14      4        3         0          7        0        0       0             0    0           9           3          12           33
             Total    19        0       24          43     21       16         0         37        0        0       0             0    0          37           7          44          124

            17:00      9        0       11          20      3       10         0         13        0        0       0             0    0           7           6          13           46
            17:15     13        0        4          17      4        3         0          7        0        0       0             0    0          10           2          12           36
            17:30     11        0        9          20      3        4         0          7        0        0       0             0    0          11           4          15           42
            17:45     13        0       12          25      3        7         0         10        0        0       0             0    0          17           3          20           55
             Total    46        0       36          82     13       24         0         37        0        0       0             0    0          45          15          60          179

            18:00     11        0       15          26       2       7         0          9        0        0       0             0    0          17           3          20           55
            18:15     14        0       12          26       1       2         0          3        0        0       0             0    0           5           2           7           36
            18:30     16        0        4          20       1       2         0          3        0        0       0             0    0          10           9          19           42
            18:45      9        0        7          16       2       4         0          6        0        0       0             0    0           5           7          12           34
             Total    50        0       38          88       6      15         0         21        0        0       0             0    0          37          21          58          167

      Grand Total     235       0       288        523     325     311         0        636        0        0       0             0    0        282          296         578        1737
        Apprch %     44.9       0      55.1               51.1    48.9         0                   0        0       0                  0       48.8         51.2
          Total %    13.5       0      16.6       30.1    18.7    17.9         0       36.6        0        0       0             0    0       16.2           17        33.3




                                                                                                                                                               Packet Pg. 516
                                                                            MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                                   5.c
                                                                            mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                                916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                                         File Name    : park E-california
                                                                                                                                                          Site Code    :6
                                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 11/4/2010
cit                                                                                                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                             PARK BL (east)                    From Caltrain Station                            0                       CALIFORNIA AV
                              Southbound                           Westbound                               Northbound                       Eastbound
      Start Time       RT      TH to Caltrain App. Total    RT      TH     U-turn App. Total       RT       TH      LT    App. Total   RT   to Caltrain        LT   App. Total   Int. Total
            07:00       4        0          1          5     1       7          0          8         0       0        0            0    0           1           1           2           15




                                                                                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15       9        0          2        11      1       6          0          7         0       0        0            0    0           6           3           9           27
            07:30      12        0          1        13      0       7          0          7         0       0        0            0    0           3           1           4           24
            07:45      13        0          1        14      3       2          0          5         0       0        0            0    0           3           9          12           31
             Total     38        0          5        43      5      22          0        27          0       0        0            0    0          13          14          27           97

            08:00      11        0         0         11      0        9        0           9        0        0       0             0    0           7           8          15           35
            08:15      11        0         4         15      0        6        1           7        0        0       0             0    0           2           3           5           27
            08:30      15        0         0         15      1        6        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           7           4          11           33
            08:45       9        0         1         10      0        2        0           2        0        0       0             0    0           2           7           9           21
             Total     46        0         5         51      1       23        1          25        0        0       0             0    0          18          22          40          116

            09:00      26        0         0         26      1        4        1           6        0        0       0             0    0           6           4          10           42
            09:15      11        0         0         11      2        2        1           5        0        0       0             0    0           5           3           8           24
            09:30      24        0         0         24      0        7        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           2           2           4           35
            09:45      11        0         0         11      0        4        0           4        0        0       0             0    0          13           6          19           34
             Total     72        0         0         72      3       17        2          22        0        0       0             0    0          26          15          41          135

            10:00      17        0         2         19      0        9        0           9        0        0       0             0    0           6           9          15           43
            10:15      19        0         1         20      0        2        2           4        0        0       0             0    0           4           7          11           35
            10:30      21        0         1         22      1        4        0           5        0        0       0             0    0           3           8          11           38
            10:45      25        0         1         26      1        7        0           8        0        0       0             0    0           8          10          18           52
             Total     82        0         5         87      2       22        2          26        0        0       0             0    0          21          34          55          168

            11:00      22        0         0         22      0        2        0           2        0        0       0             0    0           3           5           8           32
            11:15      14        0         0         14      0       10        1          11        0        0       0             0    0           5           8          13           38
            11:30      30        0         0         30      1        7        0           8        0        0       0             0    0           3           4           7           45
            11:45      24        0         1         25      3        4        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           5          11          16           48
             Total     90        0         1         91      4       23        1          28        0        0       0             0    0          16          28          44          163

            12:00      27        0         0         27      0        7        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           7           9          16           50
            12:15      31        0         0         31      2        2        0           4        0        0       0             0    0           3           6           9           44
            12:30      29        0         0         29      1        7        0           8        0        0       0             0    0           6           6          12           49
            12:45      42        0         3         45      0        3        0           3        0        0       0             0    0           3           8          11           59
             Total    129        0         3        132      3       19        0          22        0        0       0             0    0          19          29          48          202

            13:00      38        0         0         38      1        3        0           4        0        0       0             0    0           8           4          12           54
            13:15      31        0         1         32      5       12        0          17        0        0       0             0    0           7           8          15           64
            13:30      23        0         2         25      0        5        0           5        0        0       0             0    0           7           7          14           44
            13:45      33        0         0         33      2        3        0           5        0        0       0             0    0           2           5           7           45
             Total    125        0         3        128      8       23        0          31        0        0       0             0    0          24          24          48          207

            14:00      21        0         1         22      1        6        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           5           5          10           39
            14:15      21        0         2         23      1        4        0           5        0        0       0             0    0           4           8          12           40
            14:30      34        0         2         36      1        6        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           3           7          10           53
            14:45      30        0         3         33      1        6        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           5           6          11           51
             Total    106        0         8        114      4       22        0          26        0        0       0             0    0          17          26          43          183

            15:00      19        0         2         21      1        7        0           8        0        0       0             0    0           7           4          11           40
            15:15      26        0         1         27      0        6        0           6        0        0       0             0    0           5           5          10           43
            15:30      33        0         2         35      1        8        0           9        0        0       0             0    0           6          13          19           63
            15:45      30        0         2         32      1        6        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           4           6          10           49
             Total    108        0         7        115      3       27        0          30        0        0       0             0    0          22          28          50          195

            16:00      36        0         2         38      3       12        1          16        0        0       0             0    0           9           6          15           69
            16:15      38        0         1         39      0        9        0           9        0        0       0             0    0           9           7          16           64
            16:30      38        0         3         41      0        5        2           7        0        0       0             0    0           4           4           8           56
            16:45      29        0         0         29      1       13        1          15        0        0       0             0    0          14           9          23           67
             Total    141        0         6        147      4       39        4          47        0        0       0             0    0          36          26          62          256

            17:00      40        0         1         41      0        9        0           9        0        0       0             0    0          12           5          17           67
            17:15      39        0         2         41      0        8        0           8        0        0       0             0    0           5           5          10           59
            17:30      37        0         0         37      2       10        0          12        0        0       0             0    0          11           4          15           64
            17:45      48        0         4         52      0        7        0           7        0        0       0             0    0           6           3           9           68
             Total    164        0         7        171      2       34        0          36        0        0       0             0    0          34          17          51          258

            18:00      44        0         0         44      0       17        0          17        0        0       0             0    0          12          12          24           85
            18:15      32        0         2         34      0       11        3          14        0        0       0             0    0           8           5          13           61
            18:30      25        0         2         27      4       15        2          21        0        0       0             0    0          10           3          13           61
            18:45      26        0         1         27      1        9        1          11        0        0       0             0    0           8           9          17           55
             Total    127        0         5        132      5       52        6          63        0        0       0             0    0          38          29          67          262

      Grand Total    1228        0        55       1283      44     323        16        383        0        0       0             0    0        284          292         576        2242
        Apprch %      95.7       0       4.3               11.5    84.3       4.2                   0        0       0                  0       49.3         50.7
          Total %     54.8       0       2.5       57.2       2    14.4       0.7       17.1        0        0       0             0    0       12.7           13        25.7




                                                                                                                                                                Packet Pg. 521
                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                          5.c
                                                                     mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                         916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                          File Name    : park w-california
                                                                                                                                           Site Code    :5
                                                                                                                                           Start Date   : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Bicycles Only
                               0                           CALIFORNIA AV                         PARK BL. (west)                   CALIFORNIA AV
                          Southbound                         Westbound                             Northbound                        Eastbound
      Start Time     RT    TH      LT    App. Total   RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total      Int. Total
            07:00     0      0       0            0    0       5       0           5        10       0        0       10      0        0       0          0             15




                                                                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15     0      0       0            0    0       4       3           7         2       0        2         4     0        6       0          6             17
            07:30     0      0       0            0    0       3       3           6         8       0        1         9     0        2       0          2             17
            07:45     0      0       0            0    0       6       3           9        18       0        2       20      1       11       0        12              41
             Total    0      0       0            0    0      18       9         27         38       0        5       43      1       19       0        20              90

            08:00     0     0       0             0    0       4        0          4      19        0        3        22       2       1         0          3           29
            08:15     0     0       0             0    0      10        2         12      15        0        3        18       1       7         0          8           38
            08:30     0     0       0             0    0       8        4         12      13        0        4        17       2       5         0          7           36
            08:45     0     0       0             0    0       3        7         10      21        0        4        25       1       4         0          5           40
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      25       13         38      68        0       14        82       6      17         0         23          143

            09:00     0     0       0             0    0       8        5         13      19        0        2        21       0       3         0          3           37
            09:15     0     0       0             0    0      10        1         11      13        0        1        14       1       4         0          5           30
            09:30     0     0       0             0    0       7        3         10       8        0        4        12       0       0         0          0           22
            09:45     0     0       0             0    0       2        4          6      11        0        2        13       0       2         0          2           21
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      27       13         40      51        0        9        60       1       9         0         10          110

            10:00     0     0       0             0    0       8        2         10       5        0        2         7       0       4         0           4          21
            10:15     0     0       0             0    0       6        0          6       7        0        0         7       1       1         0           2          15
            10:30     0     0       0             0    0       6        1          7       6        0        2         8       0       2         0           2          17
            10:45     0     0       0             0    0       3        0          3       4        0        1         5       0       1         0           1           9
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      23        3         26      22        0        5        27       1       8         0           9          62

            11:00     0     0       0             0    0       7        2          9       5        0        2         7       0       2         0          2           18
            11:15     0     0       0             0    0       1        1          2       6        0        3         9       2       0         0          2           13
            11:30     0     0       0             0    0       5        1          6       3        0        1         4       3       1         0          4           14
            11:45     0     0       0             0    0       3        6          9       3        0        1         4       2       3         0          5           18
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      16       10         26      17        0        7        24       7       6         0         13           63

            12:00     0     0       0             0    0       4        3          7       3        0        0         3       0       3         0          3           13
            12:15     0     0       0             0    0       2        3          5       2        0        1         3       3       5         0          8           16
            12:30     0     0       0             0    0       0        2          2       4        0        1         5       0       2         0          2            9
            12:45     0     0       0             0    0       2        2          4       2        0        3         5       0       1         0          1           10
             Total    0     0       0             0    0       8       10         18      11        0        5        16       3      11         0         14           48

            13:00     0     0       0             0    0      13        3         16       8        0        0         8       2       3         0           5          29
            13:15     0     0       0             0    0       2        2          4       6        0        0         6       0       2         0           2          12
            13:30     0     0       0             0    0       7        3         10       5        0        1         6       0       1         0           1          17
            13:45     0     0       0             0    0       3        1          4       1        0        0         1       0       0         0           0           5
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      25        9         34      20        0        1        21       2       6         0           8          63

            14:00     0     0       0             0    0       3        4          7        1       0        0          1      0       2         0           2          10
            14:15     0     0       0             0    0       5        3          8        1       0        2          3      1       1         0           2          13
            14:30     0     0       0             0    0       2        3          5        3       0        0          3      0       0         0           0           8
            14:45     0     0       0             0    0       1        5          6        1       0        1          2      0       3         0           3          11
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      11       15         26        6       0        3          9      1       6         0           7          42

            15:00     0     0       0             0    0       4        3          7       3        0        2         5       1       2         0          3           15
            15:15     0     0       0             0    0       2        4          6       4        0        0         4       1       3         0          4           14
            15:30     0     0       0             0    0       3        8         11       5        0        1         6       2       3         0          5           22
            15:45     0     0       0             0    0       4        5          9       4        0        1         5       1       8         0          9           23
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      13       20         33      16        0        4        20       5      16         0         21           74

            16:00     0     0       0             0    0       2        4          6       2        0        0         2       2       3         0          5           13
            16:15     0     0       0             0    0       2        2          4       7        0        0         7       0       4         0          4           15
            16:30     0     0       0             0    0       4       10         14       6        0        1         7       2       5         0          7           28
            16:45     0     0       0             0    0       2        9         11       6        0        0         6       4       6         0         10           27
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      10       25         35      21        0        1        22       8      18         0         26           83

            17:00     0     0       0             0    0       1        9         10       3        2        4         9      0        0         0          0           19
            17:15     0     0       0             0    0       5       24         29       8        2        2        12      7        0         0          7           48
            17:30     0     0       0             0    0       5       22         27       8        1        1        10      8        0         0          8           45
            17:45     0     0       0             0    0       1        9         10       5        0        2         7      2        0         0          2           19
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      12       64         76      24        5        9        38     17        0         0         17          131

            18:00     0     0       0             0    0       3       15         18       6        3        2        11      9        0         0          9           38
            18:15     0     0       0             0    0       3       16         19       7        0        0         7      7        0         0          7           33
            18:30     0     0       0             0    0       3       12         15       8        0        4        12      6        0         0          6           33
            18:45     0     0       0             0    0       1       10         11       3        0        2         5      6        0         0          6           22
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      10       53         63      24        3        8        35     28        0         0         28          126

      Grand Total     0     0       0             0    0     198      244       442       318       8       71       397      80     116         0        196        1035
        Apprch %      0     0       0                  0    44.8     55.2                80.1       2     17.9              40.8    59.2         0
          Total %     0     0       0             0    0    19.1     23.6       42.7     30.7     0.8      6.9       38.4    7.7    11.2         0        18.9




                                                                                                                                                 Packet Pg. 527
                                                                     MARKS TRAFFIC DATA                                                                          5.c
                                                                     mietekm@comcast.net
                                                                         916.806.0250
CITY OF PALO ALTO                                                                                                                          File Name    : park w-california
                                                                                                                                           Site Code    :5
                                                                                                                                           Start Date   : 11/10/2010
cit                                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles Only
                               0                           CALIFORNIA AV                         PARK BL. (west)                   CALIFORNIA AV
                          Southbound                         Westbound                             Northbound                        Eastbound
      Start Time     RT    TH      LT    App. Total   RT     TH       LT App. Total        RT       TH      LT App. Total    RT      TH       LT App. Total      Int. Total
            07:00     0      0       0            0    0       6       9         15         10       0        4       14     10        5       0        15              44




                                                                                                                                                                         Attachment: Attachment C: Cal. Av. Transportation Impact Analysis (2339 : California Av Streetscape Updates)
            07:15     0      0       0            0    0      10       5         15          4       0      12        16     11       12       0        23              54
            07:30     0      0       0            0    0      10      10         20          4       0      12        16     10        5       0        15              51
            07:45     0      0       0            0    0       8      15         23          8       0      17        25     13       10       0        23              71
             Total    0      0       0            0    0      34      39         73         26       0      45        71     44       32       0        76             220

            08:00     0     0       0             0    0       7       18         25       11       0       24        35     11       11         0         22           82
            08:15     0     0       0             0    0      14       22         36       13       0       16        29     15       25         0         40          105
            08:30     0     0       0             0    0      18       19         37       11       0       25        36     11       13         0         24           97
            08:45     0     0       0             0    0      21       16         37       10       0       26        36     17       18         0         35          108
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      60       75        135       45       0       91       136     54       67         0        121          392

            09:00     0     0       0             0    0       9       22         31       12       0       12         24    16       14         0         30           85
            09:15     0     0       0             0    0      11       15         26        7       0       12         19    10        7         0         17           62
            09:30     0     0       0             0    0      10       22         32        6       0       15         21    18       26         0         44           97
            09:45     0     0       0             0    0      11       14         25        8       0       17         25    13       17         0         30           80
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      41       73        114       33       0       56         89    57       64         0        121          324

            10:00     0     0       0             0    0      13       21         34       10       0       14         24    21       27         0         48          106
            10:15     0     0       0             0    0      16       20         36        5       0       15         20    27       23         0         50          106
            10:30     0     0       0             0    0      13       32         45        7       0       12         19    17       20         0         37          101
            10:45     0     0       0             0    0      10       23         33       12       0        6         18     8       14         0         22           73
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      52       96        148       34       0       47         81    73       84         0        157          386

            11:00     0     0       0             0    0      12       19         31       11       0       16        27     22       15         0         37           95
            11:15     0     0       0             0    0      16       17         33        9       0       13        22     21       16         0         37           92
            11:30     0     0       0             0    0      15       21         36       13       0       17        30     13       25         0         38          104
            11:45     0     0       0             0    0      14       25         39       12       0       10        22     20       27         0         47          108
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      57       82        139       45       0       56       101     76       83         0        159          399

            12:00     0     0       0             0    0      16       34         50       16       0       16        32     25       39         0         64          146
            12:15     0     0       0             0    0      14       29         43       12       0       25        37     36       29         0         65          145
            12:30     0     0       0             0    0      20       22         42       17       0       10        27     25       24         0         49          118
            12:45     0     0       0             0    0      17       29         46       10       0       13        23     15       30         0         45          114
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      67      114        181       55       0       64       119    101      122         0        223          523

            13:00     0     0       0             0    0      19       26         45       10       0       11         21    18       23         0         41          107
            13:15     0     0       0             0    0      18       35         53       10       0       16         26    22       22         0         44          123
            13:30     0     0       0             0    0      18       32         50       11       0       11         22    27       18         0         45          117
            13:45     0     0       0             0    0      19       30         49        9       0        9         18    32       23         0         55          122
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      74      123        197       40       0       47         87    99       86         0        185          469

            14:00     0     0       0             0    0      13       39         52        9       0       14        23     33       13         0         46          121
            14:15     0     0       0             0    0      17       28         45       13       0        8        21     21       17         0         38          104
            14:30     0     0       0             0    0      18       29         47       10       0       15        25     26       19         0         45          117
            14:45     0     0       0             0    0       6       22         28       18       0       16        34     28       13         0         41          103
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      54      118        172       50       0       53       103    108       62         0        170          445

            15:00     0     0       0             0    0      13       22         35        7       0       11         18    21       20         0         41           94
            15:15     0     0       0             0    0      12       24         36       10       0       10         20    18       15         0         33           89
            15:30     0     0       0             0    0      17       31         48       10       0       24         34    26       21         0         47          129
            15:45     0     0       0             0    0      10       22         32       11       0       12         23    21       22         0         43           98
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      52       99        151       38       0       57         95    86       78         0        164          410

            16:00     0     0       0             0    0      17       26         43       10       0       18         28    13       20         0         33          104
            16:15     0     0       0             0    0      15       22         37        4       0       12         16    21       16         0         37           90
            16:30     0     0       0             0    0      16       32         48        8       0       15         23    19       17         0         36          107
            16:45     0     0       0             0    0       8       31         39        8       0       21         29    27       14         0         41          109
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      56      111        167       30       0       66         96    80       67         0        147          410

            17:00     0     0       0             0    0      14       27         41       10       0       21        31     18       14         0         32          104
            17:15     0     0       0             0    0      10       35         45       13       0       11        24     23       18         0         41          110
            17:30     0     0       0             0    0      17       44         61       10       0       13        23     20       20         0         40          124
            17:45     0     0       0             0    0      19       34         53        9       0       17        26     38       17         0         55          134
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      60      140        200       42       0       62       104     99       69         0        168          472

            18:00     0     0       0             0    0      23       30         53        7       0       16         23    27       32         0         59          135
            18:15     0     0       0             0    0      19       25         44        8       0       17         25    28       16         0         44          113
            18:30     0     0       0             0    0      11       20         31        6       0       19         25    22       14         0         36           92
            18:45     0     0       0             0    0      11       19         30        6       0       15         21    15       22         0         37           88
             Total    0     0       0             0    0      64       94        158       27       0       67         94    92       84         0        176          428

      Grand Total     0     0       0             0    0     671     1164      1835       465       0      711      1176     969     898         0       1867        4878
        Apprch %      0     0       0                  0    36.6      63.4               39.5       0     60.5              51.9    48.1         0
          Total %     0     0       0             0    0    13.8      23.9      37.6       9.5      0     14.6       24.1   19.9    18.4         0        38.3




                                                                                                                                                 Packet Pg. 532
