                                              APPENDIX A

 
 
 
 
 
 




                      NOTICE OF PREPARATION
                                And
                           INITIAL STUDY




COUNTY OF MONTEREY                                DRAFT EIR
PAJARO NEIGHBORHOOD PARK                          DECEMBER 2009
MONTEREY COUNTY
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AGENCY
REDEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING OFFICE, Jim Cook, Director
168 West Alisal Street, 3rd Floor                                           (831) 755-5390
Salinas, CA 93901                                                      Fax: (831) 755-4958



                                    INITIAL STUDY

I.       BACKGROUND INFORMATION
                  Project Title: Pajaro Neighborhood Park Project 
                       File No.: PLN090275 
            Project Location: 24 San Juan Road in unincorporated community of Pajaro in the 
                              northern limits of Monterey County at the MontereySanta Cruz 
                              county line 
 Name of Property Owner: Granite Construction Company 
         Name of Applicant: Redevelopment Agency of the County of Monterey  
          Assessor's Parcel 117341002000, 117341003000, and 117331025000 (117341099
                Number(s): 000) 
       Acreage of Property: 4.9 
General Plan Designation: ResidentialHigh Density 8 DU/Ac 
              Zoning District: HDR/B6 
                Lead Agency: County of Monterey  
                 Prepared By: Stephanie Strelow, Strelow Consulting 
               Date Prepared: 11/2/09 
             Contact Person: Nick Nichols, Project Manager, Redevelopment & Housing Office 
              Phone Number: (831) 7555390 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                       Page 1                                 INITIAL STUDY
II.       DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT AND ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING

A.        Project Description and Operation

Project Need and Objectives. The  purpose  of  the  project  is  to  provide  a  public  park  with  a  play 
field  within  the  unincorporated  community  of  Pajaro.  There  are  currently  no  public  parks  or 
recreational  facilities  in  the  community.   While  public  parks  exist  across  the  Pajaro  River  in  the  City 
of  Watsonville  in  Santa  Cruz  County,  this  is  outside  the  jurisdictional  boundary  of  the  County  of 
Monterey.   Additionally,  the  Pajaro  River  and  levee  physically  separate  the  two  communities,  and 
Pajaro residents look largely to the County of Monterey to address their recreation needs.   
 
Pajaro  is  a largely low  income Hispanic farm worker  community with  a large number  of youth,  and 
soccer  is  the  most  popular  recreational  activity.    No  formal  soccer  playfields  are  present  either  in 
Pajaro  or  in  the  parks  identified  in  Watsonville  within  a  half  mile  of  the community.  In general, the 
community currently lacks sufficient community amenities, such as open space, parks, civic facilities 
and  community  services  to  accommodate  the  growing  needs  of  the  relatively  young  population  of 
Pajaro  (Source  IX.4).  According  to  the  County's  Five  Year  Redevelopment  Implementation  Plan  for 
the  area,  10  acres  of  recreation/park  space  with  at  least  one  baseball/softball  diamond,  two  soccer 
fields  and  some  playgrounds  and  tot  lots  are  required  for  a community the size of  Pajaro.  Currently 
the  Pajaro  Middle  School,  located  at  250  Salinas  Road  approximately  ½  mile  from  the  project  site, 
provides limited recreational facilities in the area (Ibid.). 
 
Due to this lack  of recreational facilities for the existing population, several potential park sites have 
been  identified  in  previous  planning  efforts  undertaken  by  the  Monterey  County  Redevelopment 
and  Housing  Office.    In  order  to  facilitate  park  construction,  the  Redevelopment  Agency  set  aside 
$449,000 in its fiveyear implementation plan from 2005 to 2010. 
 
Project Location. The proposed Pajaro Neighborhood Park site is located within the unincorporated 
community  of  Pajaro  in  the  northwestern  portion  of  Monterey  County  adjacent  to  the  Pajaro  River. 
Pajaro  is  adjacent  to  and  south  of  the  City  of  Watsonville  in  Santa  Cruz  County  (see  Figure  1).  The 
project site is located off of San Juan Road, west of its intersection with Porter Drive.  
 
Proposed Project Elements.    The  proposed  project  consists  of  property  acquisition  by  Monterey 
County  and  development  of  a  community  park  to  serve  the  unincorporated  community  of  Pajaro. 
The  proposed  park  will  serve  approximately  3,500  residents  in  the  community  of  Pajaro  and 
surrounding areas and will be the community's first park.   
 
Facilities.  The proposed park will consist of new facilities including: 
      ·   Recreational play facilities to include: 
              A turf field for youth size baseball and soccer with a baseball backstop 
              A decomposed granite running track 
              A fullsize basketball court 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 2                                          INITIAL STUDY
    ·     Playgrounds: 
              One playground for 512 yearolds  
              One playground for 25 yearolds separated and surrounded by seatwalls for parents 
                to sit on and supervise their children 
    ·    Accessory Recreational Facilities: 
             A small stage area for local celebrations and displays 
             Picnic areas with tables and benches 
             Three  shade  pavilions  with  barbecue  facilities  that  can  be  rented  out  to  groups  to 
                generate revenue for the park 
    ·    Other Facilities: 
             A prefabricated restroom building 
             Drinking fountains  
     · Parking: An asphalt parking lot with 53 parking stalls and a vehicular dropoff area 
      
Approximately  42%  of  the  site  will  consist  of  the  turf  field.  The  remainder  of  the  site  will  consist  of 
decomposed  granite,  asphalt,  concrete,  natural  open  space  that  can  be  used  for  dog 
walking/running, and shrub and groundcover landscaping.  A small turf area will run alongside the 
baseball  diamond  to  provide  seating  and  lounging  opportunities  for  baseball  spectators.  [A 
conceptual site plan is shown on Figure 2.   
 
The  turf  sports  field  will  be  either  synthetic  turf  material  or natural grass.  Determination  of the turf 
material  will  be made after the project grant  funding has  been finalized, which is estimated  to  occur 
in  December  of  2009.  The  field  will  be  designed  to  accommodate  both  options  of  the  synthetic  or 
natural  grass  material.   The  synthetic  turf  installation  will  require  specific  design  for  site  runoff  and 
soil  subgrade  treatment.    The  Redevelopment  Agency  intends  to  apply  for  a  grant  from  the 
Statewide  Park  Development  and  Community  Revitalization  Act  of  2008  (Proposition  84)  to  fund 
the  design  and  construction  of  the  project.    If  funding  is  not  granted  in  December  2010,  it  is 
anticipated  that  the  play  field  will  initially  be  planted  with  turf  grass.  However,  the  County  intends 
to convert the field to synthetic turf at such time that funding becomes available. 
 
An  existing  3,500  squarefoot  rectangular  galvanized  metal  building  along  the  southern  property 
line  will  be  retained.   It  is intended  that  a  portion of the  building may eventually serve as a meeting 
room  for  local  Boy  Scout  troops  or  other  community  group,  and  the  other  portion  will  serve  as 
equipment  and  machinery  storage.    However,  the  building  will  not  be  modified  as  part  of  this 
project.  
 
Operations.    The  park  is  intended  for  use  by  the  residents  of  the  community  of  Pajaro  for  team 
sports,  primarily  soccer  and  baseball,  children's  playground,  picnicking,  parties,  barbecues,  and 
other  general  localserving  recreational  needs.   The  park  is  expected  to  be  open  to  the  public  during 
daylight hours only, and locked by maintenance personnel during the night.  
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                Page 3                                            INITIAL STUDY
FIGURE 1: Project Location




Pajaro Neighborhood Park     Page 4   INITIAL STUDY
The  park  will  be  secured  with  perimeter  fencing,  security  lighting,  and  lockable  vehicular  and 
pedestrian  gates  in  response  to  concerns  expressed  by  the  Pajaro  Citizens  Advisory  SubCommittee 
(CAC)  and  residents  living  adjacent  to  the  park  site  regarding  the  high  number  of  homeless 
transients  living  in  the  riverbed  adjacent  to  the  site.    Nighttime  lighting  will  be  minimal  and  only 
for security purposes.  
 
Primary  vehicular  and  pedestrian  access  to  the  park  will  be  from  San  Juan  Road.    Emergency 
vehicular  and  secondary  pedestrian  access  will  be  at  the  southeast  corner  of  the  site  off  Florence 
Avenue, through the adjacent neighborhood. 
      
Utilities.    New  electricity,  water,  and  plumbing  facilities  will  be  brought  on  the  site  to  the  new 
restroom  building  and  shade  pavilions.  A  new  storm  drainage  system  will  be  installed  throughout 
the site.  All utility lines  can be accessed through Florence Avenue at the southeast corner of the site 
through  an  eightinch  water  line,  an  eightinch  sanitary  sewer  line,  and  a  twelveinch  storm  drain 
line.    
 
Phasing.   The  park  will  be  constructed  in  two  phases,  depending  on  available  funding.  Phase  1  will 
consist of construction of all underground utilities, the turf field, and gravel parking lot.  Phase 2 will 
consist  of  construction  of  all  other  park  components  listed  above,  including  paving  the  gravel 
parking lot. The turf field may be converted to synthetic turf in Phase 2 if not installed in Phase 1.    
  
Lot Merge.   The  project  site  currently  consists  of  three  contiguous  Assessors'  Parcels.   It  is  proposed 
that  the  project  entitlement  process  will  include  filing  a  Reversion  to  Acreage  map  to  merge  these 
parcels into a single parcel. 
 

B.      Environmental Setting and Surrounding Land Uses
 
The  project  4.9acre  site  is  located  in  the  northwestern  portion  of  the  unincorporated  community  of 
Pajaro  adjacent  to  the  Pajaro  River,  which  forms  the  boundary  between  Monterey  and  Santa  Cruz 
counties.  The  city  of  Watsonville  in  Santa  Cruz  County  is  located  north  of  the  project  site  and  the 
Pajaro River.  
 
The site is located off of San Juan Road west of its intersection with Porter Drive. Vehicular access to 
the site is provided via San Juan Road through a Countyowned easement (APN 117341099000) at 
the  project  entrance.  The  site  is  bordered  by  the  Pajaro  River  and  its  levee  to  the  north/northwest, 
residential  development  to  the  east  and  south,  and  the  Southern  Pacific  Railroad  tracks  and 
agricultural  land  uses  to  the  west.    A  levee  access  easement  exists  over  APN  117331025  off  San 
Juan Road in favor of the County Water Resources Agency.  The Union Pacific railroad rightofway, 
a  separate  feeowned  property,  abuts  the  property  on  the  south.   There  are  no  easements  on  the  site 
related to the railroad.   
 
The  project  site  is  currently  vacant,  but  was  the  former  location  of  the  Granite  Construction 
Company  corporation  yard.  The  site  was  formerly  used  as  a  construction  company  office, 
construction  staging  and  mobilization  facility,  and  equipment  and  materials  storage  yard.  The 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 5                                          INITIAL STUDY
former  main  building  has  been  demolished  and  onsite  soils  were  remediated  in  2009.  There  is  an 
existing  3,500  squarefoot  rectangular  galvanized  metal  building  on  a  concrete  slab  foundation  on 
the  site  along  the  southern  property  line  that  will  be  retained.  A  rusted,  corrugated  metal  fence 
currently  separates  the  site  from  neighboring  homes  along  the  northeast  boundary.    A  concrete 
retaining/screen wall separates the site from neighboring homes along the southeast boundary. 
 
The  property  is  relatively  flat  and  is  devoid  of  trees  or  significant  vegetation,  except  for  scattered 
nonnative  grasses  and  weeds.  Two  Monterey  pine  trees  are  located  on  the  Pajaro  River  levee 
immediately adjacent to and north of the site. 
 
The  community  of  Pajaro  covers  approximately  243  acres  including  roadways.  The  community 
consists  of  primarily  highdensity  residential  development  interspersed  with  commercial  and 
industrial  uses.  The  surrounding  area  consists  of  mixed  residential  and  commercial  uses  in  the 
community  of  Pajaro.  A  singlefamily  residential  neighborhood  is  located  adjacent  to  the  site  on  the 
east and south, and commercial uses are found further east along Porter Drive. 
 
Pajaro  is  a  small  community  surrounded  by  prime  agricultural  lands  currently  in  cultivation,  and 
lands to the west of the project site in strawberry cultivation. The community and surrounding areas 
are  located  within  the  100year  flood  plain  of  the  Pajaro  River.   To  the  northwest  across  the  Pajaro 
River,  within  the  Watsonville  City  Limits,  are  industrial  properties,  and  to  the  southwest  are 
agricultural fields.   
  

C. Project Actions
 
The Monterey County actions that are covered in this Initial Study include: 

    ·    Monterey County Board of Supervisors  acting  as  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
         Redevelopment  Agency  of  the  County  of  Monterey:  Approval  of  property  acquisition  for 
         development of a park by the Redevelopment Agency. 

    ·    Monterey County Planning Commission:  Approval  of  a  Combined  Development  Permit 
         consisting of: 
             Use Permit to allow the construction of a park in a High Density Residential zone 
             Lot Merger 
             Lot Line Adjustment involving APN 117331025000 & 117331025000 
             Zoning  variance  to  potentially  permit  an  increase  in  fence  height  and  a  possible 
                 variance to address sideyard set backs (existing legal nonconforming building) 

    ·    Redevelopment Agency of the County of Monterey:  Grant/funding  Applicant  for  the 
         project. 

    ·    Other Public Agencies Whose Approval Is Required:   
                  California Regional Water Quality Control Board: Review Notice of Intent and Storm 
                  Water Pollution Prevention Plan 
      



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 6                                         INITIAL STUDY
FIGURE 2: Proposed Conceptual Site Plan


 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park      Page 7      INITIAL STUDY
III.     PROJECT CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL
         AND STATE PLANS AND MANDATED LAWS
Use the list below to indicate plans applicable to the project and verify their consistency or non-
consistency with project implementation.

General Plan/Area Plan                                       Air Quality Mgmt. Plan                        

Specific Plan                                                Airport Land Use Plans                        

Water Quality Control Plan                                   Local Coastal Program-LUP                     

Discussion:
General Plan/Area Plan/LUP. The  project  is  designated  ResidentialHigh  Density  8  DU/Ac  in  the 
Monterey  County  General  Plan.  The  County  is  in  the  process  of  updating  its  General  Plan.  A  draft 
General  Plan  Update  and  Final EIR have been prepared. It is expected that the  General  Plan  Update 
will  be considered  by the Board of Supervisors  in  early 2010.   Existing Monterey County zoning for 
the  site  is  HDR/B6  ­  High  Density  Residential  with  a  "Building  Site"  designation  of  B6.  The  "B" 
districts  establish  specific  regulations  for  lot  size  and  structure  setbacks;  the  B6  designation  limits 
further  subdivisions  on  a  given  property  and  establishes  setbacks  for  structures.  Parks  are  allowed 
in this zone district per Monterey County Code Title 21, section 21.10.050.D., subject to approval of a 
conditional  use  permit  from  the  Planning  Commission.  Review  of  project  consistency  with  existing 
General  Plan  policies  and  relevant  policies  proposed  in  the  draft  General  Plan  Update    will  be 
provided in the EIR that will be prepared for the project. 
 
Air Quality Management Plan.    The  Monterey  Bay  Unified  Air  Pollution  Control  District's 
(MBUAPCD)  2008  Air  Quality  Management  Plan  For  the  Monterey  Bay  Region  (AQMP)  addresses  state 
air  quality  standards.  The  Monterey  Bay  Unified  Air  Pollution  Control  District  (MBUAPCD) 
incorporates  the  regional  population  forecasts  prepared  by  the  Association  of  Monterey  Bay  Area 
Governments  (AMBAG)  in  its  preparation  of  regional  air  quality  plans.  Populationgenerating 
projects that are within the AQMP  population forecasts are considered consistent with the plan. The 
proposed  project  is  a  park  project  that  will  not  result  in  construction  of  new  housing  or  an  increase 
in population. Thus, the project is in conformance with the AQMP. 
 
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 8                                          INITIAL STUDY
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED
    AND DETERMINATION
        FACTORS
 
The environmental  factors checked below  would be potentially affected by this project, as discussed 
within the checklist on the following pages.    
 


     Aesthetics                                Agriculture Resources                  Air Quality

 Biological Resources                      Cultural Resources                         Geology/Soils

 Hazards/Hazardous Materials                   Hydrology/Water Quality                Land Use/Planning

 Mineral Resources                             Noise                               Population/Housing

 Public Services                               Recreation                          Transportation/Traffic

     Utilities/Service Systems



Some  proposed  applications  that  are  not  exempt  from  CEQA  review  may  have  little  or  no  potential 
for  adverse  environmental  impact  related  to  most  of  the  topics  in  the  Environmental  Checklist; 
and/or  potential  impacts  may  involve  only  a  few  limited  subject  areas.  These  types  of  projects  are 
generally  minor  in  scope,  located  in  a  nonsensitive  environment,  and  are  easily  identifiable  and 
without  public  controversy.  For  the  environmental  issue  areas  where  there  is  no  potential  for 
significant  environmental  impact  (and  not  checked above), the following finding can be made  using 
the project description, environmental setting, or other information as supporting evidence. 
 Check here if this finding is not applicable

FINDING:          For the above-referenced topics that are not checked off, there is no potential for
                  significant environmental impact to occur from either construction, operation or
                  maintenance of the proposed project and no further discussion in the
                  Environmental Checklist is necessary.

EVIDENCE:

1.       Aesthetics. The  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  structural  development,  and  site  is  not 
         located  with  a  public  scenic  viewshed.  There  are  no  scenic  resources  on  the  site.  Thus,  the 
         project would not result in impacts to scenic views or scenic resources. . 
 
2.       Agricultural Resources.  The  project  site  is  not  designated  for  agricultural  use  in  the 
         Monterey  County  General  Plan  or  State  Farmland  Mapping  system  nor  is  it  zoned  for 
         agricultural  use.  The  proposed  project  will  not  result  in  conversion  of  agricultural  lands  or 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 9                                        INITIAL STUDY
       conflicts with agricultural zone designations.  Agricultural lands are found to the west of the 
       site,  but  the  proposed  park  site  is  separated  from  adjacent  agricultural  lands  by  a  100foot 
       railroad  rightofway,  which  borders  the  site  and  entire  western  side  of  the  community  of 
       Pajaro. Development of a park would not adversely affect adjacent agricultural properties as 
       it  would  not  result  in  potential  conflicts  with  adjacent  agricultural  uses  that  could  indirectly 
       lead  to  conversion  of  adjacent  farmland  to  nonagricultural  uses.  Similarly,  adjacent 
       agricultural  land  uses  would  not  conflict  with  the  proposed  park.  The  railroad  rightofway 
       provides  a  100foot  buffer  between  the  site  and  adjacent  agricultural  lands.  The  project  will 
       not  result  in  new  habitable  structures.  Therefore,  no  impacts  would  be  expected  to  occur 
       related to indirect impacts on existing agricultural uses.  
 
4.     Biological Resources. The  property  supports  scattered  patches  of  ruderal,  nonnative 
       vegetation.  The  site  is  disturbed  having  been  the  former  location  of  a  corporation  yard,  and 
       more  recently  was  excavated  to  implement  soil  remediation  efforts.  There  are  only  scattered 
       patches of weedy grasses and shrubs on the site with no native vegetation or habitat present. 
       There  are  no  trees  on  the  property.  The  site  has  been  heavily  disturbed,  and  the  property 
       provides little habitat for wildlife due to  the sparseness  of the vegetation and the compacted 
       and  disturbed  condition  of  the  ground.  A  biotic  assessment  prepared  for  the  project  found 
       no  evidence  of  federally  listed  or  statelisted  plant  or  wildlife  species,  habitat  to  support 
       such species or other sensitive habitats (Source IX.8 ­ Biotic Resources Group, October 2009), 
       and  thus,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impacts  to  special  status  species,  riparian  habitat, 
       wetlands  or  other  sensitive  habitat  areas.  The  site  is  bordered  by  developed  uses  to  the  east 
       and  south  and  cultivated  agricultural  land  to  the  west  in  an  area  that  is  partially  developed 
       and has been disturbed. The area is not expected to be used as a wildlife movement area due 
       to  the  lack  of  suitable  natural  habitat  areas  in  the  area.  There  are  no  trees  on  the  project  site 
       that would be could be used by nesting raptors. Therefore, no impacts are expected related to 
       wildlife  movement  or  nesting.  There  are  no  known  Habitat  Conservation  Plan  or  Natural 
       Community  Conservation  Plans  in  the  area.   Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impact 
       related to potential conflicts with these type of plans. 
 
7.     Hazards / Hazardous Materials.  The  proposed  park  will  not  result  in  creation  of  risks 
       associated  with  hazardous  material  use  as  no  hazardous  materials  would  be  used.  The 
       project  site  was  owned  and  used  by  Granite  Construction  Company  for  a  business  office, 
       industrial  storage  yard,  and  heavy  equipment  repair  over  the  past  40  years  and  similar  uses 
       have  been  operated  on  the  property  since  1940.    Soil  contamination  was  previously 
       identified  on  the  site,  and  remediation  (scraping,  excavation,  and  removal  of  shallow 
       impacted  soils  at  the  site  to  approximately  1215inches  below  grade)  was  performed  to  a 
       level  that  meets  or  exceeds  State  and  County  standards  for  residential  development.    On 
       June  9,  2009,  the  Monterey  County  Health  Department  Environmental  Health  Division 
       issued  a  letter  concluding  that  the  existing  shallow  soil  contamination  has  been  remediated, 
       a recently discovered monitoring well  was properly destroyed,  and that therefore no further 
       action  is  required  to  mitigate  soil  contamination  at  the  site  (Source  IX.6  ­  Monterey  County 
       Department of Health, June 2009).  
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 10                                            INITIAL STUDY
         The  project  site  is  not  included  on  a  state  list  of  hazardous  materials  sites  (compiled 
         pursuant  to  Government  Code  Section  65962.5).  The  Watsonville  Municipal  Airport  is 
         located approximately 1.5 miles north of the proposed Pajaro Neighborhood Park site. There 
         are  no  private  airstrips  in  the  area  that  would  be  affected  by  the  proposed  project.  As  a 
         community  park,  the  project  would  not  interfere  with  implementation  of  the  County's 
         emergency  plan.  The  project  site  is  located  within  a  developed  area  surrounded  by 
         agricultural  lands  except  for  the  city  of  Watsonville  to  the  north.  The  project  site  is  not  in  an 
         area  exposed  to  wildland  fire  hazards  due  to  absence  of  dense  vegetation  and  steep  terrain. 
         The  proposed  park  project  would  not  result  in  habitable  structures  or  an  increase  in 
         population. Therefore, no impacts are expected related to hazards or  hazardous materials.  
 
10.      Mineral Resources. No  mineral  resources  exist  in  the  project  area.  Therefore,  no  impact  is 
         expected as a result of the project. 
 
12.      Population and Housing. The  proposed  project  consists  of  development  of  a  community 
         park  and  will  not  result  in  new  housing  or  population  increases. The  project  sites  do  not 
         contain habitable structures. The project, therefore, would not displace numbers of people or 
         homes  or  otherwise  adversely  affect  housing  or  population.  Therefore,  there  is  no  impact 
         related to population and housing. 
 
14.      Recreation. The  proposed  project  will  provide  a  community  park  for the residents of Pajaro 
         and  will  not  result  in  new  development,  population  or  public  service  demands  related  to 
         parks  and  recreational  facilities.    Thus,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impacts  to  parks  or 
         recreational facilities. 
 
 
 
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                Page 11                                             INITIAL STUDY
V.     EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
1)     A brief explanation is required for all answers except "No Impact" answers that are
       adequately supported by the information sources a lead agency cites in parentheses
       following each question. A "No Impact" answer is adequately supported if the referenced
       information sources show that the impact simply does not apply to projects like the one
       involved (e.g., the project falls outside a fault rupture zone). A "No Impact" answer
       should be explained when it is based on project-specific factors as well as general
       standards (e.g., the project will not expose sensitive receptors to pollutants, based on
       project-specific screening analysis).

2)     All answers must take into account the whole action involved, including offsite as well as
       onsite, cumulative as well as project-level, indirect as well as direct, and construction as
       well as operational impacts.

3)     Once the lead agency has determined that a particular physical impact may occur, then
       the checklist answers must indicate whether the impact is potentially significant, less
       than significant with mitigation, or less than significant. "Potentially Significant Impact" is
       appropriate if there is substantial evidence that an effect may be significant. If there are
       one or more "Potentially Significant Impact" entries when the determination is made, an
       EIR is required.

4)     "Negative Declaration: Less Than Significant With Mitigation Incorporated" applies when
       incorporation of mitigation measures has reduced an effect from "Potentially Significant
       Impact" to a "Less Than Significant Impact." The lead agency must describe the
       mitigation measures, and briefly explain how they reduce the effect to a less-than-
       significant level; mitigation measures from "Earlier Analyses" (see below), may be
       cross-referenced.

5)     Earlier analyses may be used when, pursuant to the tiering, program EIR or other CEQA
       process, an effect has been adequately analyzed in an earlier EIR or negative
       declaration. Section 15063(c)(3)(D). In this case, a brief discussion should identify the
       following:

       a)      Earlier Analysis Used. Identify and state where they are available for review.
       b)      Impacts Adequately Addressed. Identify which effects from the above checklist
               were within the scope of and adequately analyzed in an earlier document
               pursuant to applicable legal standards, and state whether such effects were
               addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis.
       c)      Mitigation Measures. For effects that are "Less than Significant with Mitigation
               Measures Incorporated," describe the mitigation measures which were
               incorporated or refined from the earlier document and the extent to which they
               address site-specific conditions for the project.

6)     Lead agencies are encouraged to incorporate into the checklist references to information
       sources for potential impacts (e.g., general plans, zoning ordinances). Reference to
       previously prepared or outside documents should, where appropriate, include a
       reference to the page or pages where the statement is substantiated.




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                      Page 13                                    INITIAL STUDY
7)       Supporting Information Sources: A source list should be attached, and other sources
         used or individuals contacted should be cited in the discussion.

8)       The explanation of each issue should identify:
         a)       the significance criteria or threshold, if any, used to evaluate each question; and
         b)       the mitigation measure identified, if any, to reduce the impact to less than
                  significant.




VI. ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
                                                                                 Less Than
1.      AESTHETICS                                                               Significant
                                                                 Potentially        With        Less Than
                                                                 Significant      Mitigation    Significant      No
                                                                   Impact       Incorporated      Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a)   Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic                                                               
     highway or scenic vista?

b)   Substantially damage scenic resources,                                                                      
     including, but not limited to, trees, rock
     outcroppings, and historic buildings within a
     state scenic highway?

c)   Substantially degrade the existing visual                                                                   
     character or quality of the site and its
     surroundings?

d)   Create a new source of substantial light or glare                                                           
     which would adversely affect day or nighttime
     views in the area?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Scenic Views and Scenic Resources ­ No Impact. The project site is located in the northwestern 
corner  of  the  community  of  Pajaro.  The  site  is  visible  only  from  the  adjacent  residential 
neighborhood  to  the  east  and  south.  The  Pajaro  River  levee  on  the  north  blocks  views  into  the  site 
from areas north of the site. There are no designated scenic roads in the area. Furthermore, the site is 
not  visible  from  other  nearby  streets  and  is  not  part  of  a  scenic  view  or  public  viewshed.   Based  on 
field  observations, there are no scenic resources on the project site. The site does not contain trees or 
support  other  physical  features  that  would  be  considered  scenic.  Therefore,  no  impact  is  expected 
related to scenic views or scenic resources as none exist on the project site or vicinity. 
 
c) Effects on Surrounding Visual Character ­ Less than Significant. The  project  is  located  at  the 
northwestern  edge  of  the  developed  community  of  Pajaro.    Residential  uses  are  found  to  the  east 
and  south  of  the  south  and  are  characterized  by  older,  singlefamily  homes.  Mixed  commercial  uses 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 14                                          INITIAL STUDY
are  found  along  Porter  Drive  further  east  of  the  site.  Open  agricultural  fields  border  the  site  and 
community of Pajaro on the west. 
 
The project will not result in development of new structures, and thus there would no issues related 
to  compatibility  of  building  mass  and  scale  with  adjacent  areas.  Fencing  is  planned  around  the 
perimeter  of  the  park  for  security  reasons.  A  specific  design  has  not  yet  been  developed,  although  a 
12foot height has been discussed.  It is the intent to develop a design to address security concerns at 
night, while being attractively designed. Although, the impact is expected to be lessthansignificant, 
potential aesthetic impacts on the neighborhood will be reviewed in the EIR. 
 
d) Light and Glare ­ Less than Significant. The  proposed  park  will  open  for  daytime  use.  No 
nighttime  lighting  of  play  fields  is  proposed.  It  is  the  intent  to  install  lighting  for  security  purposes 
around  the  site,  but  lighting  will  not  be  installed  in  a  manner  that  would  result  in  offsite  glare  into 
adjacent  residences.  Although,  the  impact  is  expected  to  be  lessthansignificant,  potential  lighting 
impacts on the neighborhood will be reviewed in the EIR. 

 
 
2.       AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES
In determining whether impacts to agricultural resources are significant environmental effects, lead
agencies may refer to the California Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997)
prepared by the California Dept. of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing impacts on
agriculture and farmland.
                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                                   Significant
                                                                   Potentially        With         Less Than
                                                                   Significant      Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                     Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a)    Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or                                                                   
      Farmland of Statewide Importance (Farmland), as
      shown on the maps prepared pursuant to the
      Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program of the
      California Resources Agency, to non-agricultural
      use? (Source IX.9)

b)    Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or                                                        
      a Williamson Act contract?

c)    Involve other changes in the existing environment                                                             
      which, due to their location or nature, could result
      in conversion of Farmland, to non-agricultural
      use?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                Page 15                                           INITIAL STUDY
Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Agricultural Land Conversion ­ No Impact. The  project  site  is  not  designated  for  agricultural 
use  in  the  Monterey  County  General  Plan nor is it zoned for agricultural uses, although  agricultural 
lands are found to the west of the site.  The site is not subject to a Williamson Act contract. The site is 
not  designated  as  prime,  unique  or  other  farmland  in  the  State  Farmland  Mapping  system  (FMMP). 
The  FMMP,  operated  by  the  California  Department  of  Conservation,  produces  maps  and  statistical 
data  used  for  analyzing  impacts  on  California's  agricultural  resources.  Agricultural  land  is  rated 
according  to  soil  quality  and  irrigation  status;  the  best  quality  land  is  called  Prime  Farmland.  The 
maps  are  updated  every  two  years  with  the  use  of  a  computer  mapping  system,  aerial  imagery, 
public  review,  and  field  reconnaissance.  The  project  site  and  the  entire  community  of  Pajaro  are 
designated  "Urban  and  Builtup  Land"  in  the  State's  Farmland  Mapping  System  (Source  IX.9   
California  Department  of  Conservation,  2006).  Therefore,  the  proposed  project  will  not  result  in 
conversion of agricultural lands or conflicts with agricultural zone designations, and would result in 
no impact. 
 
b-c) Effects on Surrounding Agricultural Lands Conversion ­ Less than Significant. The proposed park 
site  is  separated  from  adjacent  agricultural  lands  by  a  100foot  railroad  rightofway,  which  borders 
the  site  and  entire  western  side  of  the  community  of  Pajaro.  The  lands  to  the  west  of  the  project  site 
are  designated  "Farmlands"  in  the  Monterey  County  General  Plan.  Adjacent  agricultural  lands  are 
designated as Prime Farmlands in California's State Farmland Mapping System.    
 
Development  of  a  park  would  not  adversely  affect  adjacent  agricultural  properties  as  it  would  not 
result in potential conflicts with adjacent agricultural uses that could indirectly lead to conversion of 
adjacent  farmland  to  nonagricultural  uses.  Similarly,  adjacent  agricultural  land  uses  would  not 
conflict  with  the  proposed  park.  The  railroad  rightofway  provides  a  100foot  buffer  between  the 
site  and  adjacent  agricultural  lands.  Agricultural  operations  can  generate  dust  and  noise  and 
pesticide  application  is  regulated  by  state  law  to  prevent  any  offsite  movement.  Exposure  to 
agricultural  operations  would  be  temporary  for  park  users,  but  the  project  will  not  result  in 
structural  development  or  a  permanent  residential  population.      Therefore,  no  impacts  would  be 
expected to occur related to indirect impacts on existing agricultural uses. 
 
 
Appendix  G  of  the  State  CEQA  Guidelines  (Environmental  Checklist)  does  not  currently  include 
forest  lands.  However,  proposed  changes  to  the  Guidelines  that  are  expected  to  be  in  effect  in 
January 2010 include consideration of forest lands as part of the agricultural resources question. The 
proposed  changes  include  new  checklist  questions  as  to  whether  a  proposed  project  would  conflict 
with  existing  zoning  for,  or  cause  rezoning  of,  forest  land  (as  defined  in  Public  Resources  Code 
section  12220(g))  or  timberland  (as  defined  in  Public  Resources  Code  section  4526)  or  whether  the 
project  would  result  in  the  loss  of  forest  land  or  conversion  of  forest  land  to  nonforest  use.  Because 
of  the  proposed  changes,  a  discussion  is  included  in  this  EIR.  The  site  is  located  in  an  area 
characterized  by  agricultural  uses  and  there  are  no  timber  resources  on  the  site  or  in  the 
surrounding area. 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                Page 16                                           INITIAL STUDY
3.      AIR QUALITY
Where available, the significance criteria established by the applicable air quality management or air
pollution control district may be relied upon to make the following determinations.
                                                                               Less Than
                                                                Potentially    Significant      Less Than
Would the project:                                              Significant   With Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                                  Impact      Incorporated        Impact      Impact

a)   Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the                                                            
     applicable air quality plan?

b)   Violate any air quality standard or contribute                                                            
     substantially to an existing or projected air quality
     violation?

c)   Result in a cumulatively considerable net                                                                  
     increase of any criteria pollutant for which the
     project region is non-attainment under an
     applicable federal or state ambient air quality
     standard (including releasing emissions which
     exceed quantitative thresholds for ozone
     precursors)?

d)   Result in significant construction-related air                                                            
     quality impacts?

e)   Expose sensitive receptors to substantial                                                                 
     pollutant concentrations?

f)   Create objectionable odors affecting a                                                                     
     substantial number of people?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Conformance with Air Quality Plan ­ No Impact. The Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control 
District's  (MBUAPCD)  2008  Air  Quality  Management  Plan  For  the  Monterey  Bay  Region  (AQMP) 
addresses  state  air  quality  standards.  The  Monterey  Bay  Unified  Air  Pollution  Control  District 
(MBUAPCD)  incorporates  the  regional  population  forecasts  prepared  by  the  Association  of 
Monterey  Bay  Area  Governments  (AMBAG)  in  its  preparation  of  regional  air  quality  plans. 
Populationgenerating  projects  that  are  within  the  AQMP  population  forecasts  are  considered 
consistent  with  the  plan.  The  proposed  project  is  development  of  a  community  park,  which  will  not 
result  in  a  population  increase.  Thus,  the  project  does  not  conflict  with  or  obstruct  implementation 
of the AQMP.  
 
b,e) Project Emissions ­ Less than Significant Impact. To  protect  public  health,  both  the  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  and  the  California  Air  Resources  Board  (CARB)  have 
established  ambient  air  quality  standards  (AAQS)  that  are  the  maximum  levels  of  ambient 
(background)  air  pollutants  considered  safe,  with  an  adequate  margin  of  safety  to  protect  public 
health  and  welfare.  The  national  standards  address  six  criteria  pollutants,  including  ozone,  carbon 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 17                                           INITIAL STUDY
monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter (both PM10 and PM2.5, which refer 
to particles less than 10 microns and 2.5 microns, respectively), and lead.  The state standards, which 
are  generally  more  stringent  than  the  federal  standards,  apply  to  the  same  pollutants  as  the  federal 
standards do, but also include sulfate, hydrogen sulfide, and vinyl chloride.   
 
The project site is located within the North Central Coast Air Basin as established by CARB, which is 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Monterey  Bay  Unified  Air  Pollution  Control  District  (MBUAPCD)  and 
includes Santa Cruz, Monterey and San Benito Counties.   The NCCAB is currently in attainment for 
the  federal  PM10  (particulates  less  than  10  microns  in  diameter)  standards  and  state  and  federal 
nitrogen  dioxide,  sulfur  dioxide  and  carbon  monoxide  standards.  The  basin  is  considered 
attainment  or  unclassified  for  other  national  standards  and  nonattainment  for  the  state  PM10 
standard,  nonattainment  transitional  for  the  1hour  component  of  the  state  ozone  standard,  and 
nonattainment for the 8hour component of the state ozone standard.    
 
The  proposed  park  project  components  will  not  result  in  permanent  stationary  emissions.  Sensitive 
receptors  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  include  the  residential  neighborhood  to  the  south  and 
east.  However,  the  proposed  project  would  not  result  in  stationary  emissions  that  would  expose 
residents to substantial pollution concentrations. The proposed use would generate some traffic, but 
would  limited  as  the  proposed  facility  would  likely  be  accessed  via  walking  or  bicycling  from  the 
Pajaro  neighborhoods. Thus, the project is not  expected to  result in indirect vehicular emissions that 
would result in an air quality violation, and this is considered a lessthansignificant impact.  
 
d,e) Construction Impacts ­ Less than Significant. The site is relatively flat, but will require regrading 
to create the proposed playing field and potentially for drainage. Project grading  could  result  in   a 
shortterm, localized decrease in air quality due to generation of particulate emissions (PM10) caused 
by  clearing,  excavation,  and  grading  operations.    According  to  MBUAPCD's  "CEQA  Air  Quality 
Guidelines"  (as  updated  in  February  2008),  8.1  acres  could  be  graded  per  day  with  minimal 
earthmoving,  or  2.2  acres  per  day  with  major  grading  and  excavation  without  exceeding  the 
MBUAPCD's  PM10  threshold  of  82  lbs/day.    The  project  site  totals  4.9  acres  and  with  minimal 
grading would be below the Air District's threshold for potentially significant impacts. Additionally, 
the  entire  site  would  not  be  graded,  only  the  area  for  the  playing  field  and  improvements,  and 
grading  would  not  be  completed  in  one  day.  It  is  likely  that  grading  would  span  a  couple  of  weeks, 
and, thus, daily grading would be below MBUAPCD thresholds.    
 
Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  a  lessthansignificant  impact  related  to  construction  emissions 
as  no  significant  dust  generation  or  PM10  emissions  impacts  would  occur  with  project  grading. 
However,  dustsuppression  practices  should  be  implemented  to  avoid  nuisance  impacts  to  adjacent 
residents, and the following Condition of Approval is recommended. 
                    
                   RECOMMENDED CONDITION OF APPROVAL:  Require  implementation  of  "Best 
                   Management"  construction  practices  to  control  dust  and  PM10  emissions  during 
                   grading  and  site  development.  The  MBUAPCD  identifies  the  following  construction 
                   practices to control dust: 
                          ·    Water all active construction areas at least twice daily; 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 18                                          INITIAL STUDY
                           ·   Prohibit  all  grading  activities  during  periods  of  high  winds  (over  15 
                               mph); 
                           ·   Cover all trucks hauling dirt, sand or loose materials. 
                           ·   Cover  or  water  stockpiles  of  debris,  soil  and  other  materials  which  can 
                               become windblown; 
                           ·   Install  wheel  washers  at  the  entrance  to  construction  sites  for  all  existing 
                               trucks; 
                           ·   Sweep  streets  if  visible  soil  material  is  carried  out  from  the  construction 
                               site; 
                           ·   Apply chemical soil stabilizers on inactive construction sites; 
                            · Plant vegetative ground cover in disturbed areas as soon as possible. 
 
Sensitive  receptors  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  site  include  the  residential  neighborhood  to  the 
south and east. Diesel particulate matter was identified as a toxic air contaminant (TAC) by the state 
of  California  in  1998.  Following  the  identification  of  diesel  as  a  TAC,  the  California  Air  Resources 
Board  (ARB)  developed  a  comprehensive  strategy  to  control  diesel  PM  emissions.  The  "Risk 
Reduction Plan to Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from DieselFueled Engines and Vehicles"--
a  document  approved  by  ARB  in  September  2000--set  goals  to  reduce  diesel  PM  emissions  in 
California  by  75%  by  2010  and  85%  by  2020.  This  objective  would  be  achieved  by  a  combination  of 
approaches (including emission regulations for new diesel engines and low sulfur fuel program). An 
important  part  of  the  Diesel  Risk  Reduction  Plan  is  a  series  of  measures  for  various  categories  of  in
use on and offroad diesel engines, which are generally based on the following types of controls: 
              
      Retrofitting  engines  with  emission  control  systems,  such  as  diesel  particulate  filters  or 
          oxidation catalysts,  
      Replacement  of  existing  engines  with  new  technology  diesel  engines  or  natural  gas  engines, 
          and  
      Restrictions placed on the operation of existing equipment.  
              
Once the Diesel Risk Reduction Plan was adopted, the ARB started developing emission regulations 
for  a  number  of  categories  of  inuse  diesel  vehicles  and  equipment.  In  July  2007,  the  ARB  adopted 
regulations  for  inuse,  offroad  diesel  vehicles  that  will  significantly  reduce  particulate  matter 
emissions  by  requiring  fleet  owners  to  accelerate  turnover  to  cleaner  engines  and  install  exhaust 
retrofits.  
                
Project  grading  and  could  involve  the  use  of  diesel  trucks  and  equipment  that  will  emit  diesel 
exhaust,  including  diesel  particulate  matter.  Although  there  are  existing  residences  adjacent  to  the 
project site, constructionrelated diesel emissions  would be of limited duration (i.e., during grading) 
and  temporary,  and  ,  and  thus,  the  project  would  not  expose  sensitive  receptors  to  substantial 
pollutant  concentrations.   Furthermore,   the  State  is  implementing  emission  standards  for  different 
classes  of  on  and  offroad  diesel  vehicles  and  equipment.  Therefore,  this  is  considered  a  lessthan
significant impact. 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 19                                          INITIAL STUDY
c) Cumulative Emissions ­ No Impact.   According  to  the  MBUAPCD  CEQA  Guidelines,  projects  that 
are  consistent  with  the  Air  Quality  Management  Plan  (AQMP)  would  not  result  in  cumulative 
impacts, as regional emissions have been factored into the Plan. The MBUAPCD prepares air quality 
plans  which  address  attainment  of  the  state  and  federal  emission  standards.  These  plans 
accommodate  growth  by  projecting  growth  in  emissions  based  on  different  indicators.  For  example, 
population  forecasts  adopted  by  Association  of  Monterey  Bay  Area  Governments  (AMBAG)  are 
used  to  forecast  populationrelated  emissions.    These  forecasts  then  are  accommodated  within  the 
AQMP.  As  indicated  above,  the  proposed  park  project  will  not  result  in  new  population  growth, 
and thus would not conflict with the adopted Air Quality Management Plan for the region. 
             
Furthermore,  in  light  of  the  increasing  importance  of  the  issue  of  global  climate  change, 
consideration  was  given  to  whether  the  project  would  cause  significant  new  emissions  of 
greenhouse  gases. Based on the data presented  above,  the  project would not  cause  a new significant 
project  effect  due  to  the  fact  that  it  will  not  result  in  stationary  emissions  nor  result  in  population 
growth that would generate indirect emissions.     
 
f) Odors ­ No Impact. The  proposed  park  would  not  create  objectionable  odors  as  none  of  the 
component  park  elements  are  known  for  generating  odors.  Therefore,  no  impacts  related  to 
generation of odors are expected to occur. 
 
 

                                                                                Less Than
4.       BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES                                                   Significant
                                                                 Potentially   With Mitigation   Less Than
                                                                 Significant   Incorporated      Significant      No
                                                                   Impact                          Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly                                                             
   or through habitat modifications, on any species
   identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special
   status species in local or regional plans, policies,
   or regulations, or by the California Department of
   Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?
   (Source IX.8)

b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian                                                              
   habitat or other sensitive natural community
   identified in local or regional plans, policies, or
   regulations or by the California Department of
   Fish and Game or US Fish and Wildlife Service?
   (Source: IX.8)

c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally                                                                 
   protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of
   the Clean Water Act (including, but not limited to,
   marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct
   removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other
   means? (Source IX.8)



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 20                                           INITIAL STUDY
                                                                             Less Than
4.      BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES                                                 Significant
                                                              Potentially   With Mitigation   Less Than
                                                              Significant   Incorporated      Significant     No
                                                                Impact                          Impact      Impact
Would the project:
d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any                                                           
   native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species
   or with established native resident or migratory
   wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native
   wildlife nursery sites?

e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances                                                             
   protecting biological resources, such as a tree
   preservation policy or ordinance?

f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat                                                         
   Conservation Plan, Natural Community
   Conservation Plan, or other approved local,
   regional, or state habitat conservation plan?



Analysis and Conclusions:
 
The  property  supports  scattered  patches  of  ruderal  vegetation.  This  herbaceous  vegetation  type  is 
comprised  of  weedy,  nonnative  plant  species,  typical  to  previously  disturbed  areas.  The  site  is 
disturbed  having  been  the  former  location  of  a  corporation  yard.  More  recently  the  site  was 
excavated  to  implement  soil  remediation  efforts.  There  are  only  scattered  patches  of  weedy  grasses 
and  shrubs  on  the  site  with  no  native  vegetation  or  habitat  present.  There  are  no  trees  on  the 
property.  Two  Monterey  pine  trees  are  located  on  the  levee,  but  would  not  be  affected  by  the 
proposed  development.  The  site  has  been heavily disturbed, and the property provides little  habitat 
for  wildlife  due  to  the  sparseness  of  the  vegetation  and  the  compacted  and  disturbed  condition  of 
the  ground.  The  presence  of  base  rock  intermixed  with  the  soil  also  moderates  the  site's  value  to 
wildlife (Source IX.8 ­ Biotic Resources Group, October 2009).  
 
a) Special Status Species ­ No Impact. A  biotic  assessment  prepared  for  the  project  found  no 
evidence  of  federally  listed  or  statelisted  plant  species  or  habitat  to  support  such  species  (Source 
IX.8  ­  Biotic  Resources  Group,  October  2009).  Although  special  status  wildlife  species  are  known  to 
occur  in  the  greater  project  vicinity  (i.e.,  California  redlegged  frog,  Santa  Cruz  longtoed 
salamander),  no  special  status  species  were  observed  or  are  believed  to  have  the  potential  to  occur 
within  the  proposed  project  site  due  to  the  very  disturbed  nature  of  the  property  (i.e.,  previous 
building  site,  construction  yard,  and  soil  remediation  activities)  and  the  limited  vegetative  cover 
(Ibid.). Therefore, the project would result in no impact to special status species. 
 
b-c) Riparian and Wetland Habitat ­ No Impact. Vegetation and habitat areas on and/or adjacent to 
the  project  sites  include  nonnative  grassland/ruderal  (weedy)  areas,  agricultural  lands.  The  site  is 
bordered  by  developed  uses  to  the  east  and  south  and  cultivated  agricultural  land  to  the  west.  The 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                            Page 21                                           INITIAL STUDY
property  was  not  observed  to  support  any  sensitive  plant  communities  (Source  IX.8  ­  Biotic 
Resources Group, October 2009).  
 
The  Pajaro  River  and  its  levee  border  the  site  on  the  north.  The  property  is  located  southeast  of  the 
Pajaro  River  levee,  and  this  section  of  the  Pajaro  River  supports  only  scattered  riparian  vegetation 
(i.e., scattered  cottonwoods trees). Most  of the  river  corridor adjacent to the proposed park supports 
grassy,  herbaceous  vegetation.  The  proposed  park  is  located  approximately  375  feet  from  the 
centerline  of  the  river  and  approximately  140  feet  from  the  closest  trees  that  comprise  the  river's 
riparian  corridor  (Source  IX.8  ­  Biotic  Resources  Group,  October  2009).    The  proposed  park  is 
separated  from  the  river  environs  by  an  unvegetated  river  levee.  As  no  nightlighting  is  proposed 
for  the  park,  no  significant  indirect  impacts  to  the  riparian  resources  along  the  Pajaro  River  are 
anticipated  from  the  project  (Ibid.).  Thus,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impacts  to  riparian,  wetland 
or other sensitive habitat areas.  

d) Wildlife Corridors and Nesting Species ­ No Impact. The  site  is  bordered  by  developed  uses  to 
the  east  and  south  and  cultivated  agricultural  land  to  the  west  in  an  area  that  is  partially  developed 
and  has  been  disturbed.  The  area  is  not  expected  to  be  used  as  a  wildlife  movement  area  due  to  the 
lack  of  suitable  natural  habitat  areas  in  the  area.  There  are  no  trees  on  the  project  site  that  would  be 
could be used by nesting raptors. Therefore, no impacts are expected related to wildlife movement or 
nesting. 
 
e-f) Habitat Plans ­ No Impact.    There  are  no  known  Habitat  Conservation  Plan  or  Natural 
Community  Conservation  Plans  in  the  area.   Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impact  related 
to potential conflicts with these type of plans. 
 
 
 
                                                                                    Less Than
5.       CULTURAL RESOURCES                                                         Significant
                                                                    Potentially        With         Less Than
                                                                    Significant      Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                      Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the                                                                         
   significance of a historical resource as defined in
   15064.5?

b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the                                                                         
   significance of an archaeological resource
   pursuant to 15064.5? (Source IX.7)

c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique                                                                           
   paleontological resource or site or unique geologic
   feature?

d) Disturb any human remains, including those                                                                        
   interred outside of formal cemeteries?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                 Page 22                                            INITIAL STUDY
Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Historical Resources ­ No Impact. There  is  one  existing  structure  on  the  project  site  ­  a  3,500 
squarefoot  rectangular  galvanized  metal  building  along  the  southern  property  line.  The  building, 
located  on  the  southern  portion  of  the  site,  appears  to  be  characteristic  of  older  storage  areas 
associated  with  industrial  uses.  It  is  not  known  whether  the  building  would  be  considered  a 
historical  resource,  but  the  building  is  planned  to  be  retained  and  potentially  incorporated  into 
future park uses.  Therefore, the project would result in no impact to historical resources. 
 
b) Archaeological Resources ­ Less than Significant.  The  project  site  is  located  within  an 
archaeological sensitivity area as shown on Monterey County General Plan maps. An archaeological 
analysis  of  the  project  site  was  conducted  and  found  that  no  recorded  archaeological  sites  are 
located  within  one  kilometer  of  the  project  area  (Source  IX.7  ­  Archaeological  Consulting,  March 
1996).  During  the  field  reconnaissance,  none  of  the  materials  frequently  associated  with  prehistoric 
cultural  resources  in  this  area  (shell  fragments,  dark  soil,  broken  or  firealtered  rocks,  bone  or  bone 
fragments, flaked or ground stone, etc.) were observed on the site.   
 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  archaeological  investigation  and  surface  reconnaissance,  it  was 
concluded  that  the  project  area  does  not  contain  surface  evidence  of  potentially  significant  cultural 
resources  (Source  IX.7    Archaeological  Consulting,  March  1996).  Furthermore,  the  site  has  been 
heavily  disturbed  due  to  past  uses  and  recent  soil  remediation  activities.  However,  because  of  the 
possibility  of  unidentified  (e.g.,  buried)  cultural  resources  being  found  during  construction,  it  was 
recommended  that  a  project  condition  be  included  in  the  event  that  unknown  resources  are 
discovered during construction. This is considered a lessthansignificant impact.  
 
                  RECOMMENDED CONDITION OF APPROVAL: If archaeological resources or human remains are 
                  accidentally discovered during construction, excavation shall be halted within 50 meters (150 
                  feet) of the find until it can be evaluated by a qualified professional archaeologist. If the find is 
                  determined  to  be  significant,  appropriate  mitigation  measures  shall  be  formulated  and  imple
                  mented.  If  human  remains  are  discovered  during  the  construction  of  the  project,  an 
                  appropriate  representative  of  Native  American  groups  and  the  County  Coroner  shall  be 
                  informed and consulted, as required by law.   
 
c) Paleontological Resources ­ No Impact. No unique geologic or paleontological features have been 
identified  in  county  plans  and  none  were  observed  on  the  project  sites  during  site  visits.   Therefore, 
the project would result in no impact to these resources.  
 
d) Human Remains ­ No Impact.  The  site  has  been  disturbed,  and  no  known  burial  sites  were 
identified  in  the  archaeological  review.  In  the  event  that  human  remains  are  discovered  during 
project  activities,  compliance  with  Section  7050.5  of  the  State  Health  and  Safety  Code  and  section 
5097.98  of  the  State  Public  Resources  Code  would  reduce  any  potential  impacts  to  less  than 
significant. This is included in the recommendation above. 
 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 23                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                                                    Less Than
6.         GEOLOGY AND SOILS                                                        Significant
                                                                    Potentially        With         Less Than
                                                                    Significant      Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                      Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a) Expose people or structures to potential substantial
   adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or
   death involving:

     i)    Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as                                                                   
           delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo
           Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the
           State Geologist for the area or based on other
           substantial evidence of a known fault? Refer to
           Division of Mines and Geology Special
           Publication 42. (Source: IX.10)

     ii)   Strong seismic ground shaking?                                                                            
     iii) Seismic-related ground failure, including                                                                  
          liquefaction?

     iv) Landslides?                                                                                                 
b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of                                                                 
   topsoil?

c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is                                                                     
   unstable, or that would become unstable as a
   result of the project, and potentially result in on- or
   off-site landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence,
   liquefaction or collapse?

d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table                                                                 
   18-1-B of the Uniform Building Code (1994),
   creating substantial risks to life or property?

e) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the                                                                 
   use of septic tanks or alternative wastewater
   disposal systems where sewers are not available
   for the disposal of wastewater?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-i, iv) Fault Rupture & Landslides ­ No Impact. The  project  site  is  located   approximately  7.5  miles 
from  the  active  San  Andreas  Fault  zone,  and  3  miles  from  the  active  ZayanteVergales  fault  zone 
(Source  IX.10  ­  D&M  Consulting  Engineers,  June  2005).  No  mapped  faults  or  fault  traces  cross  the 
project  sites  (Ibid.).  The  project  sites  are  flat  and  not  within  an  area  of  steep  slopes  subject  landslide 
hazards. Therefore, no impacts are expected to occur related to fault rupture or landslides.  
                                                                 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                 Page 24                                            INITIAL STUDY
a-ii-iii) Seismic Shaking and Liquefaction ­ Less than Significant. Seismic  shaking  is  expected  as  a 
result  of  a  major  earthquake  on  regional  faults.  However,  the  proposed  project  elements  do  not 
include  habitable  structures.  A  small  prefabricated  restroom  building  will  be  installed  according  to 
California Building Code requirements. Onsite soils generally consist of unconsolidated alluvial and 
fill soils that are susceptible to liquefaction.  
 
The  property  experienced  liquefactioninduced  ground  failure  as  a  result  of  the  1989  Loma  Prieta 
earthquake,  although  the  buildings  existing  at  the  time  suffered  very  little  damage  (Source  IX.13  ­ 
Terratech,  September  1994).  The  site  experienced  about  1  meter  of  lateral  spreading,  and  both 
ground cracking and sand boils occurred at the site (Ibid.).  
 
The  alluvial  soils  underlying  the  surficial  fill  soils  typically  consist  of  soft  to  firm  sandy  silt  to  a 
depth  of  16  to  20  feet;  the  sandy  soils  were  typically  loose  to  medium  dense  to  a  depth  of  61  feet 
(Source  IX.10  ­  D&M  Consulting  Engineers,  June  2005).  Subsurface  soils  borings  found  that  the 
upper  15  to  2  feet  beneath  the  site  appears  to  be  composed  of  interbedded  loose/soft  silt  and  clay, 
which  appear  to  be  underlain  by  loose,  finegrained,  poorly  graded  sand  which  varies  in  thickness 
from  about  13  to  25  feet  (Source  IX.13  ­  Terratech,  September  1994).  This  sand  is  underlain  by 
interbedded  sand  and  clay;  groundwater  was  encountered  at  a  depth  of  about  17  feet  beneath  the 
ground  surface  (Ibid.).  Liquefiable  sand  layers  appear  to  exist  within  the  sand  interval  which  is 
present at depths generally below 20 feet at the site (Ibid.). 
 
A  liquefaction  analysis  was  conducted  for  the  project  site  in  2005.  Potential  problems  associated 
with  liquefaction  at  the  site  include  foundation  bearing  failure,  damaging  structural  or  area  site 
settlements  and  slope  instability  or  lateral  spreading  towards  the  Pajaro  River  (Source  IX.10  ­  D&M 
Consulting  Engineers,  June  2005).  Lateral  spreading  occurs  when  large  sections  of  ground  move 
laterally  towards  an  open  face  such  as  a  river  bank  as  a  result  of  liquefaction.  Horizontal 
displacement  from  lateral  spreading  was  estimated  on  the  order  of  3  to  16  feet  at  the  project  site 
(Ibid.).  
 
Because  the  project  does  not  propose  habitable  structures  that  would  be  subject  to  foundation 
bearing failure, it is expected that liquefaction hazards would not pose a significant impact to a park 
facility. Lateral spreading could displace sections of natural or synthetic turf or other onsite facilities. 
However,  permanent  habitable  structures  would  not  be  affected  as  none  are  proposed.   Therefore, 
lessthansignificant impacts are expected to occur related to seismic shaking and liquefaction. 
 
b) Erosion ­ Less than Significant. The onsite soils are classified as Mocho silt loam in the Monterey 
Soil  Survey;  erosion.  Construction  activities  associated  with  the  project  would  include  site 
preparation,  grading and installation  of utilities. The proposed project  would be required  to  comply 
with  the  Grading  Ordinance  (Chapter  16.08  of  the  Monterey  County  Code)  and  Erosion  Control 
Ordinance  (Chapter  16.12  of  the  Monterey  County  Code).    The  anticipated  impacts  from  erosion 
would  be  low  with  implementation  of  the  standard  erosion  control  measures  required  under  these 
ordinances  to  control  erosion  during  construction  activities.  Therefore,  lessthansignificant  impacts 
are  anticipated  related  to  soil  erosion.  However,  indirect  impacts  to  water  quality  could  result  from 
inadvertent transport of sediments into nearby water bodies during construction, which is discussed 
below in subsection 8(f). 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                Page 25                                           INITIAL STUDY
  
c) Geologic Hazards ­ No impact.    The  project  site  is  not  located  on  a  geologic  unit  or  soil  that  is 
unstable,  or  that  would  become  unstable  as  a  result  of  the  project  (see  Items  aiii  and  aiv  above); 
therefore, no impacts are expected to occur.  
 
d) Expansive Soils ­ Less than Significant. The  onsite  soils  are  classified  as  Mocho  silt  loam  in  the 
Monterey Soil Survey, which are characterized as having a moderate shrinkswell potential. Because 
the  project  does  not  propose  habitable  structures  that  would  be  subject  to  foundation  failure,  it  is 
expected  that  shrinkswell  soil  properties  would  not  pose  a  significant  impact  to  a  park  facility.  
Therefore, this is considered a lessthansignificant impact.

e) Soil Suitability ­ No Impact. The  project  does  not  involve  the  use  of  septic  tanks  or  alternative 
wastewater disposal systems; therefore, there is no impact.  
 
 
                                                                              Less Than
7. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS                                                      Significant
   MATERIALS                                                   Potentially       With        Less Than
                                                               Significant     Mitigation    Significant     No
                                                                 Impact      Incorporated      Impact      Impact


Would the project:
a) Create a significant hazard to the public or the                                                           
   environment through the routine transport, use, or
   disposal of hazardous materials?

b) Create a significant hazard to the public or the                                                           
   environment through reasonably foreseeable upset
   and accident conditions involving the release of
   hazardous materials into the environment?

c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or                                                            
   acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste
   within one-quarter mile of an existing or proposed
   school?

d) Be located on a site which is included on a list of                                                        
   hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant to
   Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a
   result, would it create a significant hazard to the
   public or the environment?

e) For a project located within an airport land use                                                           
   plan or, where such a plan has not been adopted,
   within two miles of a public airport or public use
   airport, would the project result in a safety hazard
   for people residing or working in the project area?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 26                                         INITIAL STUDY
                                                                              Less Than
7. HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS                                                      Significant
   MATERIALS                                                   Potentially       With       Less Than
                                                               Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                                 Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact


Would the project:
f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip,                                                 
   would the project result in a safety hazard for
   people residing or working in the project area?

g) Impair implementation of or physically interfere with                                                    
   an adopted emergency response plan or
   emergency evacuation plan?

h) Expose people or structures to a significant risk of                                                     
   loss, injury or death involving wildland fires,
   including where wildlands are adjacent to
   urbanized areas or where residences are
   intermixed with wildlands?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Handling Hazardous Materials ­ No Impact. The  proposed  park  will  not  result  in  creation  of 
risks  associated  with  hazardous  material  use  as  no  hazardous  materials  would  be  used.  Thus,  there 
will be no impact.  
 
b-c) Creation of Hazards ­ No Impact.  The  project  site  was  owned  and  used  by  Granite 
Construction  Company  for  a  business  office,  industrial  storage  yard,  and  heavy  equipment  repair 
over  the  past  40  years  and similar uses have been operated on the property since  1940.  The existing 
office  building  and  portion  of  the  existing  equipment  shed  were  demolished  and  removed  in  2009.  
Three  aboveground  fuel  storage  tanks  (ASTs)  and  one  underground  storage  tank  (UST)  were 
removed  from  the  site  in  1996.  Soil  contamination  was  previously  identified  on  the  site,  and 
remediation  (scraping,  excavation,  and  removal  of  shallow  impacted  soils  at  the  site  to 
approximately  1215inches  below  grade)  was  performed  to  a  level  that  meets  or  exceeds  State  and 
County standards for residential development.   
 
On  June  9,  2009,  the  Monterey  County  Health  Department  Environmental  Health  Division  issued  a 
letter  concluding  that  the  existing  shallow  soil  contamination  has  been  remediated,  a  recently 
discovered monitoring well was properly destroyed, and that therefore no further action is required 
to  mitigate  soil  contamination  at  the  site  (Source  IX.6  ­  Monterey  County  Department  of  Health, 
June 2009).  Thus, the project would result in no impact related to exposure to hazardous materials. 
 
d) Hazardous Sites ­ No Impact. Review  of  applicable  state  and  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
(EPA)  database  resources  indicate  that  the  project  site  is  not  included  on  a  list  of  hazardous 
materials  sites  (compiled  pursuant  to  Government  Code  Section  65962.5)  which  includes  but  is  not 
limited  to  the  National  Priorities  List  (NPL)  or  "Superfund  List"  and  the  Comprehensive 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 27                                        INITIAL STUDY
Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and  Liability  Information  System  (CERCLIS).    Therefore, 
the project would not pose a significant hazard to the public or the environment and there would be 
no impact. 
 
e-f) Airport Sites ­ No Impact. The  Watsonville  Municipal  Airport  is  located  approximately  1.5 
miles north of the proposed Pajaro Neighborhood Park site. There are no private airstrips in the area 
that  would  be  affected  by  the  proposed  project.  Additionally,  the  proposed  project  consists  of  park 
project  and  would  not  result  in  habitable  structures  or  an  increase  in  population.  Therefore,  no 
impacts are expected.  
 
g) Emergency Response Plans ­ No Impact.  The  Monterey  County  Emergency  Plan  contains  policies 
and actions needed to respond to widespread emergencies. As a community park, the project would 
not interfere with implementation of the plan or its objectives; therefore, no impacts would result.  
 
h) Wildland Fire Hazards ­ No Impact.  The  project  site  is  located  within  a  developed  area 
surrounded  by  agricultural  lands  except  for  the  city  of  Watsonville  to  the  north.  The  project  site  is 
not in an area exposed to wildland fire hazards due to absence of dense vegetation and steep terrain. 
The  proposed  park  project  would  not  result  in  habitable  structures  or  an  increase  in  population. 
Therefore, no impacts are expected.  
 
 
 
                                                                               Less Than
8. HYDROLOGY AND WATER                                                         Significant
   QUALITY                                                      Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant     Mitigation     Significant     No
                                                                  Impact      Incorporated       Impact      Impact


Would the project:
a)   Violate any water quality standards or waste                                                              
     discharge requirements?

b)   Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or                                                             
     interfere substantially with groundwater recharge
     such that there would be a net deficit in aquifer
     volume or a lowering of the local groundwater
     table level (e.g., the production rate of pre-existing
     nearby wells would drop to a level which would
     not support existing land uses or planned uses for
     which permits have been granted)?

c)   Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of                                                      
     the site or area, including through the alteration of
     the course of a stream or river, in a manner which
     would result in substantial erosion or siltation on-
     or off-site?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 28                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                                             Less Than
8. HYDROLOGY AND WATER                                                       Significant
   QUALITY                                                    Potentially       With       Less Than
                                                              Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                                Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact


Would the project:
d)   Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of                                                 
     the site or area, including through the alteration of
     the course of a stream or river, or substantially
     increase the rate or amount of surface runoff in a
     manner which would result in flooding on- or
     off-site?

e)   Create or contribute runoff water which would                                                        
     exceed the capacity of existing or planned storm
     water drainage systems or provide substantial
     additional sources of polluted runoff?

f)   Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?                                                       
g)   Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area                                                     
     as mapped on a federal Flood Hazard Boundary
     or Flood Insurance Rate Map or other flood
     hazard delineation map?

h)   Place within a 100-year flood hazard area                                                            
     structures which would impede or redirect flood
     flows?

i)   Expose people or structures to a significant risk of                                                 
     loss, injury or death involving flooding, including
     flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or
     dam?

j)   Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?                                                            

Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Waste Discharge ­ No Impact. The  proposed  park  project  would  not  result  in  discharges  that 
would  be  regulated  or  potentially  violate  water  quality  standards  or  waste  discharge  requirements. 
Therefore, no impacts are expected. 
 
b) Groundwater - Potentially Significant. The project site is located in the Pajaro Valley groundwater 
basin,  where  shallow  groundwater  flows  northwest  into  the  Pajaro  River  bed.    The  groundwater 
basin  has  been  determined  to  be  in  overdraft,  which  is  a  primary  issue  related  to  any  new 
development  in  the  area.   Water  supply  for  the  project  will  be  supplied  by  the  Pajaro  Sunny  Mesa 
Community Services District, whose water supplies are derived from the Pajaro Valley groundwater 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                            Page 29                                        INITIAL STUDY
basin.  Project  water  demand  and  effects  on  regional  groundwater  will  be  evaluated  in  an  EIR.   See 
also subsection 16(d) below. 
 
c) Alteration of Drainage and Erosion Potential ­ No Impact. The proposed project will be connected 
to  existing  storm  drains  and  would  have  no  effect  on  streams  or  watercourses  in  the  vicinity. 
Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impact  regarding  alteration  of  drainage  patterns  and 
watercourses, e.g., the Pajaro River and potential subsequent erosion. 
 
d-e) Drainage ­ Potentially Significant. The  majority  of  stormrelated  surface  runoff  on  the  site 
currently  flows  northwest  to  an  existing  twelveinch  culvert  under  the  levee  into  the  Pajaro  River.  
There  is  an  existing  municipal  storm  drain  system  adjacent  to  the  property  in  San  Juan  Road  at 
Brooklyn Street. It is anticipated that the project will be graded to drain and connect to that system.  
 
Immediately following the 1995 flood, the Monterey County Redevelopment Agency, in cooperation 
with  the  Monterey  County  Department  of  Public  Works,  prepared  and  adopted  the  Pajaro  Master 
Drainage  Plan,  and  storm  drain  improvements  have  been  completed.  These  storm  water  system 
improvements  were  constructed  in  four  phases,  and  were  designed  to  handle  a  10year  frequency 
storm.  Runoff from the 25year frequency storm is stored and conveyed away from the community, 
thereby minimizing inundation of private property or damage to public facilities  (Source IX.5). 
 
Approximately  25%  of  the  site  will  consist  of  impervious  surfaces,  and  the  proposed  soccer  field 
may be constructed with synthetic turf that would increase impervious surfacing on the site. Further 
assessment  of  project  runoff  and  drainage  facilities  will  be  provided  in  the  EIR.  The  analysis  will 
also  review  surface  and  subsurface  drainage  issues  and  potential  impacts  related  to  installation  of 
synthetic turf. 

f) Water Quality ­ Less than Significant with Mitigation. The  project  site  is  located  adjacent  to  the 
Pajaro  River  separated  from  the  watercourse  by  an  existing  levee.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  project 
site  will  be  graded  to  drain  into  a  municipal  storm  drain  system  southeast  of  the  site.  However, 
runoff  may  also  enter  the  Pajaro  River.  Although  separated  by  the  levee  from  the  river,  site  grading 
could  result  in  inadvertent  erosion  into  the  Pajaro  River  if  not  properly  managed.  Further  review  of 
water  quality  and  erosion  impacts  will  be  included  in  the  EIR.  The  project  will  be  required  to 
comply with the County's Grading and Erosion Control Ordinances.   
 
g-i) Flood Hazard Areas ­ Less than Significant Impact.  The  project  site  is  located  in  the  100year 
floodplain  of  the  Pajaro  River  as  is  the  surrounding  area  and  community  of  Pajaro.   The  levee  is  the 
only separation between the site and the river.  The project does not include construction of housing, 
and  thus  would  not  result  in  placement  of  housing  within  a  100year  flood  hazard  area.  It  is  not 
expected  that  the  project  would  result  in  significant impacts related  to flooding, but a flood analysis 
will the included in the EIR based on the FEMA FIRM for the area, as well as previous work done as 
a  result  of  the  1995  Pajaro  River  flood  event,  will  be  reviewed.  While  no  new  buildings  other  than  a 
small  restroom  are  being  considered  for  this  project,  the  inclusion  of  fencing  and  grading  must  be 
examined  to  determine  whether  there  would  be  impacts  to  adjoining  properties.  The  project  site  is 
not located  within an area subject to flooding as a result of failure of a dam as none exist in the area. 
However,  the  site  is  located  adjacent  to  the  Pajaro  River  levees,  which  are  subject  to  failure. 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 30                                          INITIAL STUDY
Consideration  of  levee  failure  along  the  project  boundary  and  its  impact  to  facilities  must  also  be 
considered in the floodplain analysis.   
 
j) Tsunami, Seiche, Mudflow Hazards ­ No Impact. The  project  site  is  not  located  in  the  coastal  zone 
or  near  any  waterbody,  and  thus,  is  not  subject  inundation  by  seiche,  tsunami,  or  mudflow. 
Therefore, there is no impact. 
 
 
 
                                                                              Less Than
9.      LAND USE AND PLANNING                                                 Significant
                                                               Potentially       With        Less Than
                                                               Significant     Mitigation    Significant     No
                                                                 Impact      Incorporated      Impact      Impact
Would the project:
a) Physically divide an established community?                                                                
b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan, policy,                                                       
   or regulation of an agency with jurisdiction over the
   project (including, but not limited to the general
   plan, specific plan, or zoning ordinance) adopted
   for the purpose of avoiding or mitigating an
   environmental effect?

c) Conflict with any applicable habitat conservation                                                          
   plan or natural community conservation plan?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Physically Divide a Community ­ No Impact. The  project  is  a  park  project  that  would  be  located 
within  an  existing  small,  developed  community  of  Pajaro.  It  will  provide  a  lacking  public  facility 
within  the  community  and  is  adjacent  to  existing  residential  areas.  As  such,  it  would  not  divide  an 
established community and no impact would result with implementation of the proposed project. 
 
b) Conflicts with Policies & Regulations ­ Potentially Significant. The  project  is  designated 
ResidentialHigh Density 8 DU/Ac in the Monterey County General Plan. Existing Monterey County 
zoning  for  the  site  is  HDR/B6  ­  High  Density  Residential  with  a  "Building  Site"  designation  of  B6. 
Parks  are  allowed  in  this  zone  district  per  Monterey  County  Code  Title  21,  section  21.10.050.D., 
subject to approval of a conditional use permit. The "B" districts establish specific regulations for lot 
size  and  structure  setbacks;  the  B6  designation  limits  further  subdivisions  on  a  given  property  and 
establishes  setbacks  for  structures.  The  project  does  not  propose  additional  subdivision  of  land,  but 
rather,  proposes  merging  three  existing  lots  to  form  the  proposed  park  site.  As  discussed  in  this 
Initial  Study,  an  EIR  will  be  prepared  to  further  assess  impacts  related  to  drainage,  flood  hazards, 
water  quality,  water  supply,  wastewater  service,  traffic,  and  aesthetics.  Thus,  a  review  of  project 
consistency  with  County  General  Plan  policies  will  be  provided  in  the  EIR  once  the  additional 
analyses are complete. 
 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 31                                         INITIAL STUDY
c) Habitat Plans ­ No Impact. Monterey  County  does  not  have  an  adopted  Habitat  Conservation 
Plan,  Natural  Community  Conservation  Plan  or  other  approved  local,  regional  or  state  habitat 
conservation plan.  Therefore, there is no impact.   
 
 
                                                                            Less Than
10.     MINERAL RESOURCES                                                   Significant
                                                             Potentially       With       Less Than
                                                             Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                               Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
Would the project:
a) Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral                                                  
   resource that would be of value to the region and
   the residents of the state? (Source: IX.1, IX.2)

b) Result in the loss of availability of a locally                                                        
   important mineral resource recovery site
   delineated on a local general plan, specific plan or
   other land use plan? (Source: IX.1, IX.2)


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Mineral Resources ­ No impact.    The  project  site  does  not  contain  any  locally  or  regionally 
valuable  mineral  resources  according  to  the  Monterey  County  General  Plan.  Therefore,  the 
proposed project would not adversely affect mineral resources and no impact is expected. 
 
 
 
                                                                            Less Than
11.     NOISE                                                               Significant
                                                             Potentially       With       Less Than
                                                             Significant     Mitigation   Significant     No
                                                               Impact      Incorporated     Impact      Impact
Would the project result in:
a) Exposure of persons to or generation of noise                                                          
   levels in excess of standards established in the
   local general plan or noise ordinance, or
   applicable standards of other agencies?

b) Exposure of persons to or generation of                                                                
   excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne
   noise levels?

c) A substantial permanent increase in ambient                                                           
   noise levels in the project vicinity above levels
   existing without the project?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                           Page 32                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                                                               Less Than
11.     NOISE                                                                  Significant
                                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant     Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                  Impact      Incorporated       Impact       Impact
Would the project result in:
d) A substantial temporary or periodic increase in                                                              
   ambient noise levels in the project vicinity above
   levels existing without the project?

e) For a project located within an airport land use                                                             
   plan or, where such a plan has not been adopted,
   within two miles of a public airport or public use
   airport, would the project expose people residing
   or working in the project area to excessive noise
   levels?

f) For a project within the vicinity of an airstrip,                                                            
   would the project expose people residing or
   working in the project area to excessive noise
   levels?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Noise Exposure ­ No Impact. The  project  consists  of  development  of  a  community  park 
adjacent  to  a  primarily  residential  area.  Lands  to  the  west  are  in  strawberry  production,  and  thus, 
the  project  site  may  be  subject  to  intermittent  equipment  noise  from  adjacent  operations.  However, 
there  are  no  major  stationary  sources  of  noise  and  highly  traveled  roads  or  freeways  adjacent  to  the 
site  that  would  expose  people  to  substantial  noise  levels.  Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  no 
impact related to noise exposure. 
 
c) Permanent Noise Increases ­ Less than Significant. The  proposed  project  consists  of  a  park.  The 
project  would  have  intermittent  periods  of  outdoor  sound  levels  associated  with  recreational  uses. 
Peak  park  use,  when  soccer  games  may  be  played,  is  expected  on  weekends  and  holidays  and  at 
some  times  after  school.  The  park  will  be  open  only  during  daylight  hours.  While  some  residents 
may hear  intermittent sounds associated with recreational play fields, it would not be of the level or 
magnitude  that  would  increase  ambient  noise  levels.  Additionally,  a  solid  wall  will  be  provided  at 
the  property  line  to  provide  a  buffer  to  adjacent  residences.  Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  a 
lessthansignificant impact related to permanent ambient noise levels. 
 
d) Temporary Noise Increases ­ Less than Significant.  Park  development  and  construction  will 
temporarily  increase  noise  levels  in  the  immediate  vicinity  Noise  levels  will  vary  during  the 
construction  period,  depending  on  the  activity  and  type  of  equipment  used,  but  would  not  be 
considered  substantial  due  to  the  shortterm  duration  and  lack  of  sensitive  receptors  adjacent  to 
most  of  the  project  sites.  Shortterm  construction  activities  will  be  required  to  conform  to  County  of 
Monterey  Noise  Ordinances  and  limited  hours  of  construction.  Additionally,  a  trailermounted, 
portable  engine  generator  is  included  in  the  project  to  provide  emergency  standby  power  during 
times  of  power  outages  that  could  result  in  periods  of  increased  noise.  However,  usage  would  be 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 33                                          INITIAL STUDY
infrequent and intermittent, except for monthly maintenance  in which the units are run for about 30 
minutes  twice  a  month.  Therefore,  the  project  would  result  in  a  lessthansignificant  impact  related  to 
temporary noise levels. 
 
e-f) Airport Noise ­ No Impact. There are no air carrier or general aviation airports in the vicinity of 
the  project  site.  The  nearest  airport,  the  Watsonville  Airport,  is  located  slightly  more  than  1.5  miles 
north  of  the  proposed  project  site.  The  project  site  is  not  located  within  an  airport  clear  zone,  which 
is located within the immediate airport vicinity.  There are no private airstrips in the area that would 
be affected by the proposed project. Therefore, no impacts are expected.  
 
 
 
                                                                                 Less Than
12.      POPULATION AND HOUSING                                                  Significant
                                                                 Potentially        With         Less Than
                                                                 Significant      Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                   Impact       Incorporated       Impact       Impact
Would the project:
a) Induce substantial population growth in an area,                                                               
   either directly (for example, by proposing new
   homes and businesses) or indirectly (for example,
   through extension of roads or other
   infrastructure)?

b) Displace substantial numbers of existing housing,                                                              
   necessitating the construction of replacement
   housing elsewhere?

c)    Displace substantial numbers of people,                                                                     
      necessitating the construction of replacement
      housing elsewhere?


Analysis and Conclusions:
a) Population Growth ­ No Impact. The  proposed  project  consists  of  development  of  a  community 
park  and  will  not  result  in  new  housing  or  population  increases,  and  thus,  will  have  no  impact  on 
population or housing. 
 
b-c) Housing & Population Displacement ­ No Impact. The  project  sites  do  not  contain  habitable 
structures.  The  project,  therefore,  would  not  displace  numbers  of  people  or  homes  or  otherwise 
adversely affect housing or population; therefore there is no impact. 
 
 
 
                                                                                 Less Than
13.      PUBLIC SERVICES                                                         Significant
                                                                  Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation     Significant      No
Would the project result in:                                        Impact      Incorporated       Impact       Impact



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 34                                           INITIAL STUDY
                                                                              Less Than
13.     PUBLIC SERVICES                                                       Significant
                                                               Potentially       With        Less Than
                                                               Significant     Mitigation    Significant     No
Would the project result in:                                     Impact      Incorporated      Impact      Impact

Substantial adverse physical impacts associated with
the provision of new or physically altered
governmental facilities, need for new or physically
altered governmental facilities, the construction of
which could cause significant environmental impacts,
in order to maintain acceptable service ratios,
response times or other performance objectives for
any of the public services:

a)    Fire protection?                                                                                        
b)    Police protection?                                                                                     
c)    Schools?                                                                                                
d)    Parks?                                                                                                  
e)    Other public facilities?                                                                                

Analysis and Conclusions:

a, c-e) Public Service Demand ­ No Impact. Fire protection services in the project area provided by 
the  North  Monterey  County  Fire  Protection  District.  The  project  would  not  result  in  structural 
development  or  create  fire  hazards.  The  proposed  project  consists  of  development  of  a  community 
park  and  will  not  result  in  new  housing  or  population  increases,  and  thus,  will  not  result  in  a 
demand  for  or  impact  on  fire  protection,  schools  or  parks.  Thus,  no  impacts  are  expected  related  to 
these  public  services.  The  project  will  provide  a  much  needed  park/recreational  facility  for  the 
Pajaro community 
 
b) Public Service Demand ­ Less than Significant Impact. The  Monterey  County  Sheriff  provides 
police  protection  to  the  project  area.    The  Sheriffs  Office  in  Salinas  is  the  departments  primary 
dispatching  station  and  houses  the  administrative  and  support  staff.    Patrols  in  Pajaro  are 
dispatched  from  the  Sheriff's  Department.  The  Sheriff's  Department  maintains  field  offices  in  the 
communities  of  Pajaro  and  Castroville.   The  Sheriff's  Department  has  a  mutual  aid  agreement  with 
the  City  of  Watsonville  Police  Department  for  assistance  in  the  community  of  Pajaro.  The  California 
Highway  Patrol  provides  traffic  law  enforcement  on  County  roads,  including  the  streets  in  the 
communities of Pajaro and Castroville. 

The  Pajaro  River  channel  and  levee  adjacent  to  the  project  site  have  long  been  the  frequented  by 
significant  numbers  of  transient  and  homeless  people.    Trespassing  and  vandalism  on  the  project 
site have historically been chronic and ongoing problems. There may be an incremental demand for 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 35                                         INITIAL STUDY
police  services,  but  it  would  not  be  of  magnitude  that  would  require  construction  of  new  facilities 
that  would  result  in  significant  impacts.    Furthermore,  the  project  proposes  security  fencing  and 
light to prevent trespassing and potential illegal uses on the site at night. Therefore, there would be a 
lessthansignificant impact on police services as a result of the proposed project. 
 
 
 
                                                                               Less Than
14.     RECREATION                                                             Significant
                                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant     Mitigation     Significant     No
                                                                  Impact      Incorporated       Impact      Impact
Would the project:
a)    Increase the use of existing neighborhood and                                                            
      regional parks or other recreational facilities such
      that substantial physical deterioration of the
      facility would occur or be accelerated?

b)    Does the project include recreational facilities or                                                      
      require the construction or expansion of
      recreational facilities which might have an
      adverse physical effect on the environment?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Parks and Recreational Facilities ­ No Impact. The  proposed  project  will  provide  a  community 
park for the residents of Pajaro and will not result in new development, population or public service 
demands  related  to  parks  and  recreational  facilities.   Thus,  the  project  would  result  in  no  impacts  to 
parks or recreational facilities. 
 
 
 
                                                                               Less Than
15.     TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC                                                 Significant
                                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                Significant     Mitigation     Significant     No
                                                                  Impact      Incorporated       Impact      Impact
Would the project:
a) Cause an increase in traffic which is substantial in                                                        
   relation to the existing traffic load and capacity of
   the street system (i.e., result in a substantial
   increase in either the number of vehicle trips, the
   volume to capacity ratio on roads, or congestion at
   intersections)?

b) Exceed, either individually or cumulatively, a level                                                        
   of service standard established by the county
   congestion management agency for designated
   roads or highways?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                              Page 36                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                                                   Less Than
15.      TRANSPORTATION/TRAFFIC                                                    Significant
                                                                   Potentially        With         Less Than
                                                                   Significant      Mitigation     Significant       No
                                                                     Impact       Incorporated       Impact        Impact
Would the project:
c) Result in a change in air traffic patterns, including                                                             
   either an increase in traffic levels or a change in
   location that results in substantial safety risks?

d) Substantially increase hazards due to a design                                                                    
   feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous
   intersections) or incompatible uses (e.g., farm
   equipment)?
e) Result in inadequate emergency access?
                                                                                                                     
f) Result in inadequate parking capacity?                                                                            
g) Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or programs                                                                
   supporting alternative transportation (e.g., bus
   turnouts, bicycle racks)?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a-b) Traffic ­ Less than Significant Impact. Access  to  Pajaro  is  provided  by  two  major  roadway 
facilities:    State  Route  1  and  U.S.  Highway  101,  located  approximately  10  miles  to  the  east.      Both 
Route  1  and  Highway  101  serve  Pajaro  from  the  San  Francisco  Bay  area  and  other  points  north  and 
from  Monterey  and  Salinas  and  other  points  south.   Route  1,  located  approximately  2  miles  to  the 
west,  is  a  major  regional  roadway  facility  providing  access  from  areas  both  north  and  south  of 
Pajaro.  Access to the site is provided via San Juan Road west of its intersection with Porter Drive. 
 
The  proposed  project  is  a  community  park,  which  will  not  result  in  new  habitable  development  or 
population  increases.   A  community  park  to  serve  local  residents  would  not  be  expected  to  result in 
significant  trip  generation  that  would  affect  vicinity  intersection  service  levels.  However,  the  EIR 
will  provide  a  review  of  project  traffic  impacts.   It  is  expected  that  the  park  traffic  will  be  local  and 
typically  not  during  the  peak  hour  periods.  For  this  reason,  the  scope  of  work  includes  the  nearby 
Porter Drive / San Juan Road  and Porter Drive / Bishop Street intersections, as well as, the proposed 
project access point unless otherwise requested by Monterey County.   
 
Existing access and road conditions will be described based on existing data. The traffic analysis will 
include  updated  traffic  counts  at  the  Main  Street  /  San  Juan  Road  and  Porter  Drive  /  Bishop  Street 
intersections.  Projectrelated  trip  generation  and  distribution  will  be  identified  and  evaluated  for 
impacts  on  street  capacities,  intersection  levels  of  service,  and  access  and  circulation  design.  Project 
parking  demand  and  any  onsite  provision  of  project  parking  also  will  be  reviewed  in  this 
evaluation.  Pedestrian  access  in  the  vicinity  will  be  reviewed,  and  any  appropriate  pedestrian 
improvements  will  be  recommended,  if  needed.  Cumulative  impacts  will  be  analyzed  based  on  the 



Pajaro Neighborhood Park                                 Page 37                                            INITIAL STUDY
list  of  cumulative  projects  developed  in  consultation  with  Monterey  County  and  city  of  Watsonville 
regarding cumulative projects in the area.  
 
c-e) Air Traffic and Access ­ No Impact. The  proposed  project  will  have  no  effect  on  air  traffic 
patterns.  Vehicle  access  will  be  provided  via  existing  roads,  and  the  proposed  water  systems 
improvements  will  not  increase  hazards  or  result  in  inadequate  emergency  access.  There  would  be 
no impact. 
 
f) Parking -- No Impact. The  proposed  project  includes  a  parking  lot  for  53  spaces.  The  Monterey 
County  Zoning  Ordinance  does  not  have  a  specific  parking  rate  for  a  park  use.  Although,  it  is  not 
expected that parking will be an issue, project parking will be further reviewed in the EIR. 
 
g) Alternative Transportation ­ No Impact. The  proposed  park  is  not  expected  to  result  in  a  level  of 
increased   that  would  not  conflict  with  adopted  policies,  plans  or  programs  supporting  alternative 
transportation. Therefore, there would be no impact.   
 
 

16.     UTILITIES AND SERVICE
        SYSTEMS                                               Potentially
                                                              Significant    Less Than
                                                                Impact       Significant
                                                                                With        Less Than
                                                                              Mitigation    Significant      No
Would the project:                                                          Incorporated      Impact       Impact

a) Exceed wastewater treatment requirements of the                                                           
   applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board?

b) Require or result in the construction of new water                                                        
   or wastewater treatment facilities or expansion of
   existing facilities, the construction of which could
   cause significant environmental effects?

c) Require or result in the construction of new storm                                                       
   water drainage facilities or expansion of existing
   facilities, the construction of which could cause
   significant environmental effects?

d) Have sufficient water supplies available to serve                                                        
   the project from existing entitlements and
   resources, or are new or expanded entitlements
   needed?

e) Result in a determination by the wastewater                                                              
   treatment provider which serves or may serve the
   project that it has adequate capacity to serve the
   project's projected demand in addition to the
   provider's existing commitments?




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                            Page 38                                         INITIAL STUDY
16.     UTILITIES AND SERVICE
        SYSTEMS                                               Potentially
                                                              Significant    Less Than
                                                                Impact       Significant
                                                                                With        Less Than
                                                                              Mitigation    Significant      No
Would the project:                                                          Incorporated      Impact       Impact

f) Be served by a landfill with sufficient permitted                                                        
   capacity to accommodate the project's solid waste
   disposal needs?

g) Comply with federal, state and local statutes and                                                         
   regulations related to solid waste?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Wastewater Treatment Requirements ­ No Impact. The proposed park project would not result in 
discharges that would be regulated or potentially violate water quality standards or waste discharge 
requirements. Therefore, no impacts are expected.

b,e) Wastewater Treatment ­ Less than Significant Impact. The  wastewater  collection  system  in  the 
community of Pajaro is owned and operated by the Pajaro County Sanitation District (PCSD), which 
is  managed  by  the  Monterey  County  Public  Works  Department.  The  sewer  collection  system  in  the 
community  consists  of  a  looped  system.      An  existing  8inch  sewer  line  is  located  southeast  of  the 
project site off of Florence Avenue, to which project sewer lines would be connected to serve a small 
bathroom facility. 
 
The  PCSD  collects  and  conveys  wastewater  to  the  City  of  Watsonville  Wastewater  Treatment 
Facility (WWTF) pursuant to its has a contract with the City of Watsonville for treatment.  The City's 
wastewater treatment plant is located off of Beach Street west of Watsonville and provides service to 
a  21square  mile  area  encompassing  the  City  of  Watsonville,  Freedom  County  Sanitation  District, 
Pajaro  County  Sanitation  District,  and  Salsipuedes  Sanitary  District.  The  PCSD  through  an 
agreement  with  the  City  of  Watsonville,  dated  May  1,  2001,  has  capacity  rights  in  the  wastewater 
treatment  facilities  for  1.57  million  gallons/day  (mgd)  of  flow  with  specified  levels  of  suspended 
solids  and  biochemical  oxygen  demand  (Source  IX.5    Monterey  County  Redevelopment  and 
Housing Office, May 2005).   
 
Previous  studies  have  indicated  that  there  is  sufficient  treatment  capacity  to  serve  the  residential 
and  commercial  usage  proposed  by  the  "Pajaro  Development  Support  Plan"    Monterey  County 
Redevelopment  and  Housing  Office,  May  2005).    It  appears  that  adequate  sewer  line  and 
wastewater  treatment  capacity  exists  to  serve  the  proposed  project,  which  result  in  limited 
wastewater  generation  from  the  onsite  bathroom.  However,  this  will  be  further  reviewed  and 
addressed in the EIR. 
 
c) Storm Drainage Facilities ­ No Impact. See subsection 8(de) above.  
 


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                            Page 39                                         INITIAL STUDY
d) Water Supply ­ Potentially Significant. The  project  site  is  located  within  the  Pajaro  Valley 
groundwater  basin,  which  is  currently  determined  to  be  in  overdraft  condition  and  experiencing 
seawater  intrusion,  and  any  increased  demand  may  be  considered  potentially  significant.  The  basin 
is  managed  by  the  Pajaro  Valley  Water  Management  Agency.    Domestic  water  service  will  be 
provided  to  the  site  by  Pajaro  Sunny  Mesa  Community  Services  District,  whose  water  sources  are 
from  the  Pajaro  Valley  groundwater  basin.  Further  review  of  project  water  demand  and  impacts  to 
the  service  provider  and  regional  groundwater  condition  will  be  assessed  in  the  EIR.  The  EIR  water 
use  analyses  will  assess  two  scenarios:  (1)  a  "worst  case"  scenario  in  which  the  turf  field  is  planted 
with  natural  vegetation  requiring  irrigation  and  (2)  a  second  scenario  in  which  the  turf  field  uses 
artificial  turf  requiring  less  irrigation.  Project  water  demand  rates  will  be  developed  in  consultation 
with  PVWMA  staff,  Redevelopment  staff,  and  the  project  landscape  architect.  Project  demand  will 
be  compared  to  available  supplies  and  assessed  for  impacts  on  the  water  supplier  capacity  and  on 
the regional overdraft condition. The assessment will be prepared in consultation with agency staff.  
 
f-g) Solid Waste ­ Less than Significant Impact. Solid  waste  in  Pajaro  is  collected  by  Waste 
Management,  Inc.,  a  private  collection  company,  under  contract  with  Monterey  County,  and 
transported  to  the  Marina  Landfill  for  disposal.  The  Marina  Landfill  has  a  remaining  capacity  until 
2107  according  to  information  provided  in  the  EIR  for  the  County's  General  Plan  update. 1   The 
proposed  park  would  result  in  very  limited  waste  generation,  and  with  sufficient  remaining landfill 
capacity, the project would result in a lessthansignificant impact on solid waste systems.   
 
 
VII. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE
NOTE: If there are significant environmental impacts which cannot be mitigated and no feasible
project alternatives are available, then complete the mandatory findings of significance and
attach to this initial study as an appendix. This is the first step for starting the environmental
impact report (EIR) process.

                                                                                Less Than
                                                                                Significant
Does the project:                                                Potentially       With         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation     Significant      No
                                                                   Impact      Incorporated       Impact       Impact

a) Have the potential to degrade the quality of the                                                              
   environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a
   fish or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife
   population to drop below self-sustaining levels,
   threaten to eliminate a plant or animal community,
   reduce the number or restrict the range of a rare
   or endangered plant or animal or eliminate
   important examples of the major periods of
   California history or prehistory?




           1
               ICF Jones & Stokes. September 2008. "2007 Monterey County General Plan Draft Environmental Impact
Report."


Pajaro Neighborhood Park                               Page 40                                          INITIAL STUDY
                                                                              Less Than
                                                                              Significant
Does the project:                                              Potentially       With        Less Than
                                                               Significant     Mitigation    Significant      No
                                                                 Impact      Incorporated      Impact       Impact

b) Have impacts that are individually limited, but                                                         
   cumulatively considerable? ("Cumulatively
   considerable" means that the incremental effects
   of a project are considerable when viewed in
   connection with the effects of past projects, the
   effects of other current projects, and the effects of
   probable future projects?)

c) Have environmental effects which will cause                                                                
   substantial adverse effects on human beings,
   either directly or indirectly?


Analysis and Conclusions:

a) Degradation of Environment ­ No Impact. Based  upon  the  findings  of  this  environmental  initial 
study,  the  proposed  project  would  not  significantly  degrade  or  diminish  the  quality  of  the 
environment,  substantially  reduce  or  burden  the  habitat  of  fish  or  wildlife  species,  cause  fish  or 
wildlife  populations  to  decrease  below  selfsustaining  levels,  threaten  to  eliminate  special  or  unique 
plant  or  animal  communities,  or  reduce  the  number  or  restrict  the  habitat  or  range  of  rare  or 
endangered plants or animal life. No biological or cultural resources were identified in the area, and 
the  project  would  not  eliminate  important  examples  of  the  major  periods  of  California  history  or 
prehistory.   
 
b) Cumulative Impacts ­ Potentially Significant. The  EIR  will  provide  a  review  of  cumulative 
impacts  and    significant  cumulative  impacts  to  which  the  project's  incremental  effect  may  be 
cumulatively  considerable.  Monterey  County  and  City  of  Watsonville  will  be  contacted  to  identify 
cumulative  projects  in  the  area.  Cumulative  impacts  to  be  addressed  include,  but  are  not  limited  to, 
hydrology, traffic, water supply, and global climate change. 
 
c) Adverse Effects on Human Beings ­ No Impact. The project would not directly or indirectly cause 
substantial adverse effects on human beings. The project would provide a needed public park in the 
Pajaro community. 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 41                                         INITIAL STUDY
IX. REFERENCES and SOURCES
 
1.          Monterey County, September 1982.  Monterey County General Plan, as amended. 
 
2.          Monterey County, October 1986.  Central Salinas Valley Area Plan. 
 
3.          Monterey County. Zoning Code for Farmlands and Permanent Grazing Districts. May 2003.  
 
4.          Monterey  County  Redevelopment  and  Housing  Office.  May  2005.  "Five  Year 
            Implementation  Plan  for  the  Boronda  &  Castroville  Pajaro  Redevelopment  Project  Areas, 
            20052010." 
 
5.          Monterey  County  Redevelopment  and  Housing  Office.  September  24,  2003.  "Pajaro 
            Development Support Plan."  
 
6.          Monterey  County  Department  of  Health.  June  9,  2009.  Letter  to  Granite  Land  Company 
            regarding "Granite Construction `K' Yard ­ 24 San Juan Road, Pajaro." 
 
7.          Archaeological  Consulting.  March  26,  1996.  "Preliminary  Cultural  Resources 
            Reconnaissance  for  APN  117331025,  117431002  &  003,  Pajaro,  Monterey  County, 
            California." 
 
8.          Biotic  Resources  Group.  October  21,  2009.  "Pajaro  Community  Park  Project,  Monterey 
            County ­ Biological Assessment." 
 
9.          California  Department  of  Conservation.  July  19,  2004.  "Farmland  Mapping  and  Monitoring 
            Program." http://www.consrv.ca.gov/DLRP/fmmp/ 
 
10.         D&M  Consulting  Engineers,  Inc.  June  13,  2005.  "Liquefaction  Study,  Proposed  Pajaro 
            Commons Housing Project, Monterey County, California." 
 
11.         LAFCO  OF  Monterey  County.  February  2006.  "Final  Municipal  Services  Review  for  the 
            North County Area of Monterey County." 
 
12.         Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District.  
             June 2008. 2008 Air Quality Management Plan for the Monterey Bay Region. 
             Monterey  Bay  Unified  Air  Pollution  Control  District.  February  2008.  CEQA  Air  Quality 
              Guidelines. 
 
      13.       Terratech.  September  1,  1994.  "Geotechnical  and  Environmental  Consultation,  Granite 
                Construction  Company  Pajaro  Yard  Site,  24  San  Juan  Road  Extension,  Pajaro,  Monterey 
                County, California." 
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                             Page 42                                     INITIAL STUDY
14.    United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Soil  Conservation  Service.  Soil  Survey  of  Monterey 
       County, California. 
 
15.    Weber,  Hayes  &  Associates.  September  8,  2008.  "Results  of  Phase  I  and  II  ESA,  24  San  Juan 
       Road, Pajaro, Monterey County." 
 




Pajaro Neighborhood Park                           Page 43                                        INITIAL STUDY
                                              APPENDIX B

 
 
 
 
 
 




                           HYDROLOGY REVIEW




COUNTY OF MONTEREY                                DRAFT EIR
PAJARO NEIGHBORHOOD PARK                          DECEMBER 2009
                                                                     100 N. Winchester Blvd., Suite 200
                                                                               Santa Clara, CA 95050
                                                                                       (408) 246-4848
                                                                                 FAX (408) 246-5624
                                                                                      s&w@swsv.com


                      TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

TO:            Stephanie Strelow                                 DATE:       December 10, 2009

FROM:          Stephanie Conran, PE                              JOB #:      STRE.02.09

SUBJECT:       Pajaro Park Flooding and Drainage Analysis


Schaaf & Wheeler has been asked to analyze the Pajaro Park site with regards to flooding and
drainage. This memo outlines the analysis for use in the environmental impact report.

Flooding

The FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM Map #06053C0020G) shows the site as being in a
Zone AO of one-foot depth. This, however, is believed to be inaccurate in light of the flooding
that was observed in 1995. The Southern Pacific Railroad on the downstream property boundary
is elevated and acts as a flood barrier, impeding the natural direction of flow. This appears to not
be reflected in the FIRM. Spills from the Pajaro River deepen behind the railroad in the Salinas
Road area until they can release over the levees near Highway 1. The resulting flood elevation is
approximately 30 feet NGVD. Based on existing topography, this produces a flood depth of
approximately three feet on the site.

Based on the observed damages of the 1995 flood, Schaaf & Wheeler recommended criteria for
Pajaro's new development to protect against future flood damage as part of the proposed Pajaro
Specific Plan in 2003. These criteria have not yet been adopted, however they reflect an effort to
avoid damages that might occur should the Pajaro River levees fail in a similar manner as they
did in the 1995 flood through the developed areas of Pajaro. The criteria are as follows:

   1. There is to be no development within 200 feet of the existing levee until the levees are
      certified or if development is allowed the foundations need to be able to support the
      proposed building with a scour depth of 10 feet adjacent to the building.
   2. Development 200-300 feet from the levee must have foundations that can support
      building loads with a 5 foot deep scour adjacent to the building.
   3. New buildings shall not block the flood path which is generally in a northeast to south
      west direction unless the new building is in a flow path shadow of an existing structure or
      replaces an existing structure. The shadow is defined as a triangular shape in plan view
      that extends upstream and downstream of existing buildings. The triangle has 1:1 sides
      on the upstream shadow and 1:4 sides on the downstream shadow. If buildings are to be
To: Stephanie Strelow                            -2-                              December 10, 2009


      constructed outside the shadow areas, they must be built on piers above the flood plain
      elevation.
   4. The first floor elevation of all new construction needs to be above the flood elevation.
      The flood elevation along Salinas Road is approximately elevation 30'. Buildings to the
      east would require higher elevations.

The first two criteria regard the stability of the structures. For habitable structures, it is critical
that the foundation does not fail for the sake of public safety. However, since none of the
proposed structures for this project are habitable, there is no risk to public safety, but only to the
structure itself. Therefore, these criteria are not as critical as they would otherwise be.

Criterion 3 will not affect the placement of structures on the site since the majority of the site
falls within the shadow of existing structures on Brooklyn Street directly upstream.

Criterion 4 is again aimed at habitable structures. If the structure is such that damage will be
minimal if inundated with three feet of water, then it is unnecessary to raise the structure above
elevation 30 ft. However, if the structure must remain dry, it will need to be elevation above 30
feet NGVD.

In addition to structures, fencing will be placed around the perimeter of the property. Chain link
fencing is proposed next to the river and along the railroad and solid fencing adjacent to the
neighbors. Since solid fencing already exists along the majority of the neighbors' property lines,
any replacement of solid fencing will not worsen the flood blockage. If solid fencing is proposed
on a neighbor's property line that is not solid in the existing condition, care must be taken to
provide flood passage equal to or greater than that provided by the existing fencing. The
elevated railroad itself creates a solid flood blockage and thus will not be worsened with the
addition of chain link fencing. Since the river runs parallel to the direction of flood flows,
fencing on the property line along the river will also not impede flows.

Drainage

The Pajaro Master Drainage Plan (July 31, 1996) includes the development of the Pajaro Park
site in the Plan. At the time, a development of 53 residential units was proposed for the site.
The site was given the option of discharging runoff to the Pajaro River via independent pump
station as long as adequate detention storage was provided or connecting to the stormdrain in San
Juan Road which carries runoff to the storage area and pump station located at the end of Susan
Street. This pump station, storage area, and associated stormdrains were designed to have the
capacity to accommodate the full development of what was then referred to as Pajaro Commons,
now the Pajaro Park site. Considering this, it has been decided that the existing direct outfall
located on the site will be abandoned and all drainage from the site will be connected to the
stormdrain in San Juan Road to take advantage of the storage already provided at the alternate
outfall.

Using the Rational Method, as is customary for small sites, the total runoff is dependent upon the
time of concentration and runoff coefficient C. It is assumed that the proposed time of
concentrations for Pajaro Commons and Pajaro Park are comparable.
To: Stephanie Strelow                           -3-                             December 10, 2009



Therefore, provided that the runoff coefficient for Pajaro Park is less than that of Pajaro
Commons, the total runoff will be less than that which was included in the design of the Susan
St. detention pond and pump. As a development of 53 dwelling units, Pajaro Commons would
be classified as a medium-density residential development. Located on Type-B soil indicating
good infiltration potential, a typical C value would be approximately 0.5. The estimated
composite C value for the Pajaro Park development is 0.33 if the baseball field is sod and 0.41 if
it is Astroturf. Therefore, the Susan St. pump station, stormdrain, and detention area can
accommodate the full development of the Pajaro Park site.

For hydrology calculations, the County of Monterey requires the use of Plate 25 which provides
isohyets indicating 2-year, 1-hour rainfall intensities. Pajaro has an estimated 2-year, 1-hour
rainfall intensity of 0.6 inches. The time of concentration for the site is approximately 15
minutes to the property line on San Juan Road which was used in conjunction with Plate 25 to
produce the appropriate rainfall intensities for the site. The proposed project utilizes 1.4 acres of
impervious surface (28%). The composite C value is 0.33 if the baseball field is sod and 0.41 if
it is Astroturf. This is based on a C value of 0.1 for the sod field and any open space, 0.3 for the
Astroturf, and 0.9 for impervious surfaces. An Astroturf field functions similarly to porous
pavement, allowing rainfall to drain through a medium, collect in an underdrain system, and
route to a stormdrain and 0.3 is a typical C value for porous pavement. Discharge calculations
are exhibited in the table below for various storm frequencies.

     Stage of                2-Year         10-Year         25-Year                   100-Year
   Development          I(in/hr) Q(cfs) I(in/hr) Q(cfs) I(in/hr) Q(cfs)           I(in/hr) Q(cfs)
 Park w/ Sod Field        1.20     2.0    1.78    2.9     2.08    3.4               2.67     4.4
 Park w/ Astroturf        1.20     2.4    1.78    3.6     2.08    4.2               2.67     5.4

Such flows can easily be accommodated in any connector stormdrain necessary for connection to
the San Juan stormdrain already designed to carry these flows.

The Type-B soils in combination with the ample landscaping and open space area as set forth in
the plans provide much opportunity for the use of Best Management Practices (BMPs) for
treating runoff and encouraging infiltration. Swales could be for treatment during transport prior
to entering the stormdrain system. Biofiltration, or "rain gardens", could be used in any planted
area. Also, Filterra units could be installed in conjunction with the planned parking lot trees.
                                            APPENDIX C

 
 
 
 
 
 




                           TRAFFIC REVIEW




COUNTY OF MONTEREY                              DRAFT EIR
PAJARO NEIGHBORHOOD PARK                        DECEMBER 2009
Memorandum
To:    Stephanie Strelow
From: Ron Marquez
Date: 12/21/2009
Re:    Pajaro Park Traffic Analysis



The Purpose of this memorandum is to document the findings and
conclusions of a traffic impact analysis for the proposed Pajaro Park in the
community of Pajaro in Monterey County.

The park is proposed to be developed on a 4.9 acre site previously used as
a construction company office. The park is intended to provide a turf field for
soccer and baseball, a running track, a basketball court, playgrounds and a
community meeting room. The trip generation and distribution estimates for
this project are all based on this project description.

The previous use on the site generated approximately 200 trips per day.
This is based on 18,000 square feet of buildings and an industrial office trip
generation rate of 11.47 trips per 1,000 square feet. Although this level of
activity existed on the proposed site in recent years no credit has been
allowed to the proposed project for the previous use.

Access to the proposed site is from San Juan Road exclusively. This road
connects directly to Porter Drive which serves as the major north south
arterial in the area. A secondary connection to the Porter Drive/Salinas
Road corridor would be via Brooklyn Street and Bishop Street.

Trip Generation

The Institute of Traffic Engineers provides average trip generation rates
based on acres for City Parks and County Parks (Land Use 411 and 412)
however these averages are based on relatively few samples and
considerably larger sites. The trip rate observed for a County Park ranged
from 0.17 to 53.41 trips per acre on a weekday. Using the highest rate
observed the trip generation for the proposed park would be estimated at
262 trips per day. AM peak hour trip rates are negligible and are not
considered further in this analysis. PM peak hour rates using ITE rates


                                                                                  1
                                                                   December 21, 2009

average 26% of the daily total. Using the same ratio the proposed park
would generate 68 trips during the pm peak hour with 41% entering and 59%
exiting.

This number compares to a trip generation estimate based on use of the
park for soccer games. Assuming there was an equivalent of four teams
playing or ready to play during the course of an hour at 15 per team and
assuming conservative vehicle occupancy of 1 team member per car
approximately 60 vehicles trips may be estimated. Other activities on the
site would generate the remaining trips during the peak hour. This
corroborates the rate used for the proposed park.

The proposed park development does not meet the Monterey County
standard of 100 trips per peak hour on a County roadway to automatically
require a traffic analysis As San Juan Road is the major access to the site,
it is assumed that 80% of all the trips would be directed to Porter Drive via
this route. The project would add 54 trips during the pm peak hour to the
signalized intersection of San Juan Road and Porter Drive. This intersection
may potentially be operating at level of service D or less. Therefore it was
counted and analyzed as part of the traffic study for the proposed park.

Inasmuch as there may be concerns from the City of Watsonville for the
effects of this project on the intersection of Main Street and Riverside Drive
this signalized intersection was also analyzed.

Other intersections and roadway facilities in Monterey County were assigned
less than 49 trips per hour and were not anticipated to be operating at level
of service F. Nevertheless the intersection of Salinas Road and Bishop
Street as analyzed also. This intersection is a t-intersection and is stop
controlled on the Bishop Street approach.

Trip Distribution

The proposed park by its size and its facilities will serve primarily the
neighborhood surrounding it. For purposes of the LOS analysis the trip
distribution is assumed as 80 % to Porter Drive via San Juan, 20% diverts to
Bishop Street, a total of 40% will travel south on Salinas Road, 35% travels
north toward Watsonville and 25% is directed east on San Juan Road. Peak
hour movements are split into 41 % entering and 59% exiting as per ITE
"Trip Generation".

LOS Analysis

The level of service for the three study intersections was calculated using
"Synchro" software and the Highway Capacity Manual methodology.



                                                                                  2
                                                                                       All Traffic Data
                                                                                                 (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                F (916) 786-2879
PAJARO                                                                                                                                                 File Name    : 09-7470-001 PORTER-SAN JUAN-F
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 11/10/2009
                                                                                                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                      PORTER DR.                               SAN JUAN RD.                            PORTER DR.                           SAN JUAN RD.
                                      Southbound                                 Westbound                             Northbound                             Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru    Right       App. Total   Left     Thru    Right App. Total       Left    Thru    Right    App. Total   Left    Thru    Right      App. Total   Int. Total
               16:00        128        222       23             373     10         1     117         128         0      181        2          183     16        2        3             21          705
               16:15        119        216       19             354     15         2     113         130         1      213        5          219     16        2        7             25          728
               16:30        144        247        7             398      8         4     126         138         0      261        5          266     19        1        3             23          825
               16:45        165        256       11             432     16         3       90        109         1      206        1          208      9        1        3             13          762
                Total       556        941       60            1557     49        10     446         505         2      861       13          876     60        6       16             82         3020

               17:00         99        182           4          285      19        0       77           96         0    170        4          174     12            2      1           15         570
               17:15        136        233          10          379      14        5       97          116         1    216        4          221     15            4      4           23         739
               17:30        116        223           8          347      11        6      106          123         3    262        2          267     18            2      4           24         761
               17:45        131        165          10          306      10        3       84           97         0    227        3          230     12            1      2           15         648
                Total       482        803          32         1317      54       14      364          432         4    875       13          892     57            9     11           77        2718

        Grand Total        1038       1744          92         2874    103        24      810          937        6    1736       26         1768     117       15         27         159        5738
          Apprch %          36.1       60.7        3.2                   11      2.6     86.4                   0.3     98.2     1.5                 73.6      9.4         17
            Total %         18.1       30.4        1.6          50.1    1.8      0.4     14.1          16.3     0.1     30.3     0.5          30.8      2      0.3        0.5          2.8




                                      PORTER DR.                               SAN JUAN RD.                            PORTER DR.                           SAN JUAN RD.
                                      Southbound                                 Westbound                             Northbound                             Eastbound
        Start Time           Left     Thru       Right    App. Total   Left     Thru    Right    App. Total    Left    Thru    Right    App. Total   Left    Thru    Right      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
              16:00          128       222           23         373       10       1      117          128         0    181         2         183      16         2         3          21         705
              16:15          119       216           19         354       15       2      113          130         1    213         5         219      16         2         7          25         728
              16:30          144       247            7         398        8       4      126          138         0    261         5         266      19         1         3          23         825
              16:45          165       256           11         432       16       3       90          109         1    206         1         208       9         1         3          13         762
      Total Volume           556       941           60        1557       49      10      446          505         2    861        13         876      60         6        16          82        3020
      % App. Total          35.7      60.4          3.9                  9.7       2     88.3                    0.2   98.3       1.5                73.2       7.3      19.5
               PHF          .842      .919        .652          .901   .766     .625     .885          .915    .500    .825     .650          .823   .789     .750       .571         .820        .915
                                                                                  All Traffic Data
                                                                                            (916) 771-8700
                                                                                           F (916) 786-2879
PAJARO                                                                                                                                               File Name    : 09-7470-002 G12-BISHOP-F
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 11/10/2009
                                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                 COUNTY RD. G12                                                                  COUNTY RD. G12                      BISHOP ST.
                                   Southbound                               Westbound                              Northbound                         Eastbound
         Start Time       Left     Thru    Right App. Total         Left   Thru    Right    App. Total   Left      Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru    Right     App. Total   Int. Total
               16:00        0       208        5       213            0       0        0             0     1        184        0       185      1       0        4              5         403
               16:15        0       225        4       229            0       0        0             0     7        220        0       227      2       0        2              4         460
               16:30        0       236        4       240            0       0        0             0     6        261        0       267      3       0        5              8         515
               16:45        0       270        5       275            0       0        0             0     7        224        0       231      1       0        2              3         509
                Total       0       939       18       957            0       0        0             0    21        889        0       910      7       0       13            20         1887

              17:00          0       250          3          253      0       0        0             0     11       220        0        231      1      0          7           8         492
              17:15          0       240          6          246      0       0        0             0     10       228        0        238      0      0          3           3         487
              17:30          0       241          5          246      0       0        0             0      5       247        0        252      1      0          5           6         504
              17:45          0       191          3          194      0       0        0             0      6       236        0        242      2      0          1           3         439
               Total         0       922         17          939      0       0        0             0     32       931        0        963      4      0         16          20        1922

       Grand Total           0      1861         35         1896      0       0        0             0     53     1820         0       1873     11      0       29            40        3809
         Apprch %            0       98.2       1.8                   0       0        0                  2.8      97.2        0              27.5      0     72.5
           Total %           0       48.9       0.9         49.8      0       0        0             0    1.4      47.8        0       49.2    0.3      0      0.8            1.1




                                   COUNTY RD. G12                                                                COUNTY RD. G12                      BISHOP ST.
                                      Southbound                            Westbound                              Northbound                         Eastbound
        Start Time           Left     Thru       Right App. Total   Left   Thru    Right    App. Total   Left      Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru    Right     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:30
              16:30            0       236            4       240      0      0        0             0       6      261        0        267      3      0        5              8        515
              16:45            0       270            5       275      0      0        0             0       7      224        0        231      1      0        2              3        509
              17:00            0       250            3       253      0      0        0             0      11      220        0        231      1      0        7              8        492
              17:15            0       240            6       246      0      0        0             0      10      228        0        238      0      0        3              3        487
      Total Volume             0       996           18     1014       0      0        0             0      34      933        0        967      5      0       17             22       2003
      % App. Total             0      98.2          1.8                0      0        0                   3.5     96.5        0              22.7      0     77.3
               PHF          .000      .922        .750       .922   .000   .000     .000          .000   .773      .894     .000       .905   .417   .000     .607           .688        .972
