                       DRAFT

Historic Resources Inventory and Evaluation Report
  St. Joseph's Hall, Cronin Hall, and Vellesian Hall
                          at
     Saint Mary's College High School
                1294 Albina Avenue
             Berkeley, California 94706




                     Prepared for:

                  Lamphier-Gregory
                  1944 Embarcadero
               Oakland, California 94606

                     Prepared by:

             JRP Historical Consulting, LLC
              1490 Drew Avenue, Suite 110
                Davis, California 95618


                     January 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Summary of Findings...................................................................................................................1
2. Project Description.......................................................................................................................3
3. Research and Field Methods........................................................................................................4
4. Historical Overview .....................................................................................................................5
   4.1. Alameda County and Albany History.................................................................................. 5
   4.2. History of Saint Mary's College High School..................................................................... 7
5. Description of Resources ...........................................................................................................12
   5.1. Vellesian Hall..................................................................................................................... 13
   5.2. Cronin Hall......................................................................................................................... 13
   5.3. St. Joseph's Hall................................................................................................................. 15
6. Findings and Conclusions ..........................................................................................................18
   6.1. Evaluation Criteria ............................................................................................................. 18
   6.2. Historic Evaluation ............................................................................................................ 20
7. Bibliography ..............................................................................................................................23
8. Preparers' Qualifications ...........................................................................................................25


ILLUSTRATIONS

Figure 1: Project Location Map. .................................................................................................... 2
Figure 2: Sketch map of the Saint Mary's College High School campus. The buildings included
    in this project are numbered and correspond with the key at the lower left. ........................ 12

Cover photograph ­ St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing west, December 21, 2007.
Photograph 1: St. Mary's College High School, aerial photo facing north, ca. 1959. Photograph
    courtesy of De La Salle Institute............................................................................................. 9
Photograph 2: Vellesian Hall, camera facing southeast, December 21, 2007. ............................. 13
Photograph 3: Cronin Hall, camera facing southwest, December 21, 2007. ................................ 14
Photograph 4: Cronin Hall, camera facing southeast, December 21, 2007. ................................. 14
Photograph 5: St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing southwest, December 21, 2007. ........................ 16
Photograph 6: St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing south, December 21, 2007. ............................... 17
Photograph 7: St. Joseph's Hall, ca. 1957, showing original construction of north entrance.
    Photograph courtesy of De La Salle Institute. ...................................................................... 17
[Photographs by JRP Historical Consulting, LLC, unless noted.]

APPENDICES

Appendix A: DPR 523 Forms



                                                                       i
1. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

St. Mary's College High School (SMCHS) is currently preparing a Master Plan for its campus.
As part of the Master Plan, the school is proposing demolition or alteration of three buildings on
campus. The buildings ­ Vellesian Hall, St. Joseph's Hall, and Cronin Hall ­ were constructed
between 1946 and 1959 and are being studied for their potential to be considered historical
resources for the purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The study area
for this project is the SMCHS campus, which is contained within one assessor parcel at 1294
Albina Avenue. The campus has a Berkeley address, but most of its area, including the location
of the three buildings studied in this report, is located within the City of Albany. Figure 1
depicts the general location of the study area for this project.

CEQA requires that the City of Albany, as the project's lead agency, determine the significance
of impacts the project may have to historical resources. Lamphier-Gregory is preparing the
Master Plan document for SMCHS and hired JRP Historical Consulting, LLC (JRP) to provide
assistance for the project's CEQA compliance as it pertains to historical resources. This study is
limited to the inventory and evaluation of Vellesian Hall, St. Joseph's Hall, and Cronin Hall,
because they are the only buildings that the SMCHS Master Plan will impact and have potential
to be considered historical resources. JRP conducted this study in accordance with Section
15064.5(a)-(b) of the CEQA Guidelines using the criteria outlined in Section 5924.1 of the
California Public Resources Code as well as Section 15126.4 of the CEQA Guidelines.

JRP inventoried and evaluated Vellesian Hall, St. Joseph's Hall, and Cronin Hall to assess
whether the any of these buildings should be considered a historical resource for the purposes of
CEQA, i.e. whether they are listed in, determined eligible for listing in, or appear to meet the
criteria for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources (CRHR) or the National
Register of Historic Places (NRHP). Because the City of Albany does not have a historic
preservation ordinance, there were no local criteria to apply. The three buildings are described
and evaluated on Department of Parks and Recreation Primary and Buildings Structures and
Objects Record forms (DPR 523 forms) provided in Appendix A.

JRP concludes that the three buildings studied for this report do not appear to meet the criteria
for listing in the NRHP / CRHR. Thus, St. Joseph's Hall, Cronin Hall, and Vellesian Hall are
not historical resources for the purpose of CEQA. The SMCHS Master Plan will not, therefore,
cause a significant impact on any historical resources and no mitigation measures are necessary.




                                                1
Figure 1: Project Location Map.




              2
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION1

The implementation of the SMCHS Master Plan will affect three of the existing buildings on the
campus. Vellesian Hall, constructed in 1946 and renovated in 1985, will be demolished. Cronin
Hall, constructed in two phases in 1952 and 1959, will be renovated as part of this project,
including seismic reinforcement. Finally, St. Joseph's Hall, built in 1957 and renovated in the
early 1970s, will also be renovated and expanded. Seismic deficiencies will be addressed,
including the removal or reinforcement of the brick veneer. The plans also include a large
addition on the east side of St. Joseph's Hall that will nearly double the size of the building.




1
    Lamphier-Gregory provided JRP with the project description for inclusion in this report.


                                                            3
3. RESEARCH AND FIELD METHODS

As noted above, SMCHS is located on a single assessor parcel, APN 65-2428-1, which
constituted the study area for this project. This report examines historic architectural resources
and does not identify or evaluate archaeological resources. The steps taken to identify possible
historical resources and potential impacts the project may have on historical resources follow
CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5(a)-(b).

JRP had a records search conducted at the Northwest Information Center at Sonoma State
University in December 2007 (NWIC File No: 07-0857). The results of the search revealed no
resources at the campus. Historic sites are located nearby, including the original site of the Jose
Peralta adobe, but they will not be impacted by the school's Master Plan. JRP also examined the
standard sources of information that list and identify known and potential historical resources to
determine if any buildings, structures, objects, districts, or sites have been previously recorded or
evaluated in or near the study area. JRP reviewed the NRHP, Office of Historic Preservation
Determinations of Eligibility for the NRHP, California Inventory of Historic Resources,
California Historic Landmarks, California Points of Historical Interest, and the Alameda County
Historic Sites Directory. The review of the NRHP listed or eligible properties was necessary
because these properties would automatically be eligible for listing in the CRHR and would be
considered historical resources for the purposes of CEQA. None of the registers or lists
identified additional potential historical resources in the study area.2

JRP conducted fieldwork and research in the City of Albany in December 2007, and inventoried
the three buildings included in this project for recordation on DPR 523 forms. JRP prepared a
historic context to address the themes and background for the property and evaluated the
buildings under the CRHR and NRHP criteria on the DPR 523 forms; the latter criteria applied
because properties that are listed in or eligible for listing in the NRHP are automatically eligible
for listing in the CRHR. Historical research was conducted at the California State Library, Saint
Mary's College High School, and the District Archives for the Brothers of the Christian Schools
at the De La Salle Institute. The description and historical evaluation of the buildings at SMCHS
are summarized in Sections 5 and 6. Refer to the references in Section 7 for a complete list of
materials consulted, and to Section 8 for preparers' professional qualifications. The DPR 523
forms are included in Appendix A.




2
  National Park Service, National Register Information System, online database: http://www.nr.nps.gov/ and
http://www.nationalregisterofhistoricplaces.com/ca/Alameda/state.html (accessed January 8, 2008); Office of
Historic Preservation, Directory of Properties in the Historic Data File for Alameda County (12/2004); "Alameda
County Parks, Recreation & Historic Sites Directory," http://www.acgov.org/cda/parks/ (accessed January 8, 2008).
.



                                                       4
4. HISTORICAL OVERVIEW

Saint Mary's College High School is located in the southeast corner of the City of Albany at
1294 Albina Avenue. The campus slightly straddles the line between Albany and the City of
Berkeley which runs along Codornices Creek; however, all of the buildings studied for this
report are located on the Albany side of the boundary. The De La Salle Christian Brothers first
occupied the site in 1903 and still operate SMCHS. All of the buildings that currently comprise
the school were constructed after World War II. The following discussion describes the history
of Saint Mary's College High School from its 1863 founding in San Francisco to its history at
the current location. Please reference the sketch map in Figure 2 for the current locations of the
buildings on the campus.

4.1. Alameda County and Albany History

The City of Albany in Alameda County occupies the northern portion of what was once an
expansive land grant called Rancho San Antonio. The grant encompassed what is now Berkeley,
Albany, Emeryville, Piedmont, and a portion of San Leandro, and reached from the eastern shore
of San Francisco Bay to crest of the Contra Costa hills. The last Spanish Governor of California,
Pablo Vicente de Sola, awarded a land grant of 43,000 acres to distinguished Spanish soldier
Don Luis Maria Peralta in 1820. Don Luis never lived on the rancho and in 1842, two decades
after Mexico won its independence from Spain, he divided the land equally between his four
sons. Don Luis gave his son Domingo Peralta the northern end of the grant, which now
encompasses Albany and Berkeley. Like his father, Peralta ran cattle on the lush hills that were
also covered with oak trees. The tallow and hides from his operation were loaded onto ships
destined for American and foreign markets. Peralta's original adobe ranch home stood on the
south bank of Codornices Creek. Domingo Peralta entertained neighbors and traveling guests at
the rancho with rodeos and lavish feasts. In 1849, this pastoral and serene lifestyle changed
dramatically with the Gold Rush.3

Upon arriving in the San Francisco Bay area, settlers quickly realized the value of Domingo
Peralta's land and, by the time California achieved statehood in 1850, many of those who did not
gravitate to the gold mines purchased or illegally squatted on the majority of what was formerly
Peralta land. In 1853, California Governor Bigler authorized the creation of Alameda County.
The new county consisted of 760 square miles of land and 80 square miles of water.4
3
  Mildred Brooke Hoover, Hero Eugene Rensch, and Ethel Grace Rensch, Historic Spots in California, (Stanford:
Stanford University Press, 1966), 9-10; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City
of Albany, California, ([Albany?]: Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, 1947), 3; The site of the
First Berkeley Adobe has been designated a Point of Historical Interest in Alameda County; California Office of
Historic Preservation, Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data File for Alameda County, December 4,
2007, 40; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany, 5; Catherine J.
Webb, Stories of Albany, (Albany, CA: Albany Historical Society, 1983), 11.
4
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.


                                                        5
Early industrial development in the area began during the 1860s. The Civil War and the
transcontinental railroad claimed most of the gunpowder produced in the east. However,
enterprising businessmen in Albany began producing gunpowder to supplement the nation's
supply, which became one of the principal industries in this portion of the East Bay that led to its
further development. In 1879, the Giant Gunpowder Company (which later became the Judson
and Sheppard Chemical Works) built a plant at Fleming Point on the current site of Golden Gate
Fields racetrack. The plant closed in 1892 after several deadly explosions. The Judson
Dynamite and Powder Company followed with an explosives plant on the west slope of Albany
hill in 1898. It too suffered a series of deadly explosions and closed in 1905, ending the presence
of the explosives industry in Albany. The West Coast Kalsomine Company opened a shop on
the west slope of Cerrito Hill that produced the paints used on the 1915 Panama Pacific
Exposition buildings in San Francisco.5

An important contributing factor to the settlement of what became Albany was the development
of the University of California in Berkeley. In 1868, the state of California designated the
College of California, situated on the northwestern portion of the former Rancho San Antonio, as
the University of California. As the university grew, the surrounding area provided housing,
stores, and restaurants for the influx of students and professors.6

Settlement and development in the East Bay received another boost as refugees fled San
Francisco following the 1906 earthquake and fires. Real estate companies in northern Alameda
County promoted the undeveloped area in the East Bay as a safer alternative to San Francisco.
The population grew drastically in established cities like Berkeley following the earthquake.
Berkeley's population increased from approximately 13,000 to 40,000 between 1900 and 1910.
During this period, a conflict between the citizens of Berkeley and their neighbors led to the
incorporation of the City of Albany. For many years, Berkeley dumped its garbage in the area
around San Pablo Avenue in an area called Ocean View. Citizens in that area united to halt the
dumping and to incorporate the town of Ocean View in 1908. Voters changed the name of the
new town to Albany in 1909. In 1927, Albany adopted its first official charter and the town
formed its own school district in 1929.7 Albany's population expanded from 911 in 1910 to over
14,000 in 1945 largely because of employment opportunities provided by war-related industries.
The federal government subsidized housing projects in the Albany area for the families of
military personnel stationed in the Bay Area and employees of the Richmond shipyards.8

5
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 9; Webb, Stories of Albany, 14; Warren F. Lee and Catherine T.
Lee, A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs, (Albuquerque:
Belvidere Delaware Railroad Company Enterprises, 2000), 79-80.
6
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
7
  Webb, Stories of Albany. 27, 81; Daniella Thompson, "East Bay Then and Now: Charles Manning MacGregor,
Indefatigable Builder," The Berkeley Daily Planet, December 15, 2006.
8
  Webb, Stories of Albany, 71; Lee and Lee, A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of
Albany and Environs, 157-164; Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 62.


                                                       6
4.2. History of Saint Mary's College High School

Saint Mary's College High School began as part of Saint Mary's College in San Francisco.
Archbishop Joseph Sadoc Alemany established the college in the 1860s to bolster Catholic
education in the area. He lobbied for the De La Salle Christian Brothers, a respected teaching
order, to come to California and administer the school, but the organization decided its American
resources were too thin and could not be spared. In 1867, Alemany traveled to Rome and
appealed to the Pope, who granted his support to the plan. The following year, a group of
Christian Brothers made the journey to the West Coast and took control of Saint Mary's
College.9

History of the Christian Brothers, San Francisco District

In San Francisco, the Christian Brothers took over a school with both day and boarding students
ranging from primary to university levels, which was a common arrangement at the time. The
school succeeded in tripling the number of students in a single year and increased its relationship
with "feeder schools" in the area, including Saint Joseph's Academy in Oakland, a grammar
school founded in 1870. The San Francisco District of Christian Brothers also established or
operated schools in other parts of California (Sacramento, Oakland, Santa Barbara, San Rafael,
and Santa Cruz) as well as Oregon and Washington. These developments enabled Saint Mary's
College to purchase land in Oakland, where they constructed a large brick building to house the
college and high school. The Christian Brothers moved St. Mary's College and High School to
the new brick building in Oakland in 1889. Fires nearly destroyed the Oakland facility in 1894
and 1918, but the school rebuilt and continued in Oakland until 1927, when the high school and
college split and relocated to Peralta Park and Moraga, respectively.10

Peralta Park and the Christian Brothers

As mentioned above, squatters became a problem on Jose Domingo Peralta's property in
Alameda County after the Gold Rush. Peralta sold much of his holdings by 1853, and his heirs
split the remaining land after his death in 1865. Portions of the property changed owners
multiple times before the 1880s, including 60 acres around Codornices Creek that later became
Peralta Park and the home of SMCHS. In 1887, Maurice B. Curtis purchased these 60 acres with
plans to sell lots for a residential subdivision. Curtis, a very popular actor, also constructed a
grand hotel to serve as a retirement home for his colleagues in the theater. The Peralta Park

9
   Andrea Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary: An
Account of People and Events," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA, 1-3; Ronald
Eugene Isetti, Called to the Pacific: A History of the Christian Brothers of the San Francisco District, 1868-1944,
(Moraga, CA: St. Mary's College of California, 1979), 2-6.
10
   Martin, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary," 8-19; Isetti,
Called to the Pacific, 43-48, 86-104.


                                                          7
Hotel was completed and opened in 1891. The 60-room hotel was an extravagant and large
building with multiple spires and towers. The subdivision that surrounded the hotel became a
desirable neighborhood, and several large homes were constructed on the tree-lined lots. Despite
the success of the subdivision, the hotel quickly outdistanced its owner's finances, and Curtis
sold the property to cover his debts. The hotel became Peralta Hall and served as a boarding
school, nightclub, and candy factory before the Christian Brothers purchased the property and
building in 1903.11

Saint Mary's College High School in Peralta Park

The Christian Brothers moved St. Joseph's Academy from Oakland to Peralta Hall in Peralta
Park in 1903, when the area was all still part of Berkeley. The large hotel building, now called
Peralta Hall, offered much better facilities than the poor conditions of their building in Oakland.
Deteriorating facilities at the college and high school building in Oakland also motivated the
Brothers to consider relocating those students. As mentioned above, the college moved to new
facilities in Moraga in 1927. At the same time, the Christian Brothers commissioned a new
three-story building at Peralta Park, De La Salle Hall, to provide classrooms for the high school,
and instruction began at the new location in 1927. Peralta Hall continued to house St. Joseph's
Academy and served as a dormitory for boarding students and brothers.12

By the 1940s, the deteriorating condition of Peralta Hall prompted plans for new campus
buildings. In 1946, those plans became more pressing after a fire swept through the upper
portion of the old hotel. After the fire, the top two stories were determined structurally unsound
and were removed for the safety of the students, but the lower floors remained in service as the
school library and dormitory. In the same year as the fire, Vellesian Hall, designed by San
Francisco architect Vincent Buckley, was constructed along Codornices Creek on the southeast
end of campus to serve as housing for campus workers.13

New construction on the Peralta Park campus continued over the next decade as demand for
updated facilities grew. Two years after the construction of Vellesian Hall, the school added a
new gymnasium. In 1952, the school completed the first phase of Cronin Hall, also designed by
Buckley. Located on the western edge of the campus, it provided two classrooms that served the
grammar school classes of St. Joseph's Academy. In 1956, the school built St. Joseph's Hall

11
   Writers' Program (California), Berkeley: The First Seventy-Five Years, (Berkeley, CA: Gillick Press, 1941), 95-
96; Daniella Thompson, "Maurice Curtis lent Berkeley brief splendor," Berkeley Daily Planet, June 9, 2006.
12
   Isetti, Called to the Pacific, 213-216, 258-260.
13
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003, available at the De La Salle Institute,
District Archives, Napa, CA; Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco...," 19-20;
Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's College High School," 7-9, available at Saint Mary's
College High School. Although some sources suggest that Vellesian Hall was not built until 1959, this report relies
upon the 1946 date as reported by Marquis Associates.


                                                        8
south of the gymnasium according to plans by Buckley and Fred Houweling. This two-story
building was constructed following common academic building configuration. The rectangular
footprint design was built with a center hall flanking classrooms on the first story with a library
at one end, and included the student dormitory on the upper floor.14 In 1959, seismic
inadequacies forced the school to demolish the remaining portion of Peralta Hall. In the same
year, Cronin Hall was expanded to the south along the western border of the campus, adding
more classroom space for the high school.15 The oblique aerial photo below (Photograph 1)
shows the campus around 1959, following the demolition of Peralta Hall and construction of
Cronin Hall's extension. The gymnasium, with its prominent façade pilasters, is situated north
of St. Joseph's Hall and to the east of Cronin Hall. The "L" shaped De La Salle Hall was
prominently situated, at this time, on the east side of campus south of the sports field and north
of Vellesian Hall.




               Photograph 1: St. Mary's College High School, aerial photo facing north, ca. 1959.
                                 Photograph courtesy of De La Salle Institute.


After 1960 and over the next several decades, changes continued at the SMCHS campus. With
its limited space on its Peralta Park property, the school remodeled several buildings, built
14
   Along with his designs for SMCHS, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St.
Therese in Fresno, and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland, all in the 1950s. Research did not produce further
information about Houweling. "Parish Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune, August 27, 1959; other
buildings designed by Buckley are described on the following webpages accessed on January 18, 2008:
http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html;
http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html
15
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions
Survey, Saint Mary's College High School,"10-12, 25-27.


                                                       9
additions, altered the landscape features, used and then replaced temporary buildings, and built
new buildings in much of the remaining open space on campus. The school concentrated most
of its development on the west side of campus, even after De La Salle Hall was demolished. In
1969, the grammar boarding school, St. Joseph's Academy, relocated to the Christian Brothers'
district headquarters at Mont La Salle in Napa, leaving the entire Peralta Park campus to the high
school. In order to accommodate the school's anticipated needs over the next decades, the
Christian Brothers commissioned and instituted a master plan in the early 1970s. De La Salle
Hall was demolished in 1973 because of seismic deficiencies, so much of the master plan was
devoted to making up for the lost space and facilities. The upper-floor dorm rooms in St.
Joseph's Hall were converted to office space in 1972. New buildings included a new cafeteria
and gymnasium expansion in 1976 and a new Brothers' Residence in 1978. After housing
campus workers, the west end of Vellesian Hall became a maintenance shop, while the rest of the
building became office space in 1985. In the last twenty years, changes have continued at
SMCHS. The school became co-educational in 1995 and changed to an all day-student
population. The campus has continued to evolve with alterations to buildings and the
replacement of temporary classrooms with permanent classroom buildings in 1986 and 2002.
The current master plan for the campus recommends further measures intended to meet the
evolving needs of Saint Mary's College High School, including the removal of Vellesian Hall,
the renovation of Cronin Hall, and the expansion of St. Joseph's Hall.16

The various periods of construction and development led to a variety of architectural expressions
on campus, with little apparent architectural continuity over time. The architecture of the older
buildings on campus ranges from the utilitarian design of Vellesian Hall to the Moderne style of
the older portion of the gymnasium and mid-twentieth century Contemporary style of St.
Joseph's Hall. Cronin Hall is generally a utilitarian style building that incorporates the exterior
hallway design common to California schools constructed in the 1950s.

St. Joseph's Hall, situated at the main entrance driveway and originally built opposite De La
Salle Hall, was, as noted above, built with a common form for educational buildings that
included a symmetrical façade around a main entrance, central main hall, and multitude of
windows. Its exterior design provided an updated appearance for the traditionally laid out
academic building. The style of St. Joseph's Hall can be referred to as "Contemporary style,"
which denotes a combination of elements that derive, in part, from mid-twentieth century
Modernism along with traditional forms. The low-pitch roof, wide eaves, and bands of brick
cladding and concrete, influenced by the unadorned, efficient, and functional tenets of
Modernism, provide a strong horizontal emphasis to the design of St. Joseph's Hall. This is
enhanced by the slender metal frame fenestration with shallow insets. There is also only modest

16
  "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions
Survey, Saint Mary's College High School,"10-31; "80 Years at Peralta Park," available at the De La Salle Institute,
District Archives, Napa, CA.


                                                        10
architectural detailing, such as the cast concrete door surrounds, cartouches, and glass block
windows forming a cross. Although its lack of ornament and horizontality follow some elements
of mid-twentieth century Modernism, its general form and layout also complement the traditional
form of conventional, rectangular educational buildings, such as De La Salle Hall.




                                              11
5. DESCRIPTION OF RESOURCES

This section provides a description of the three buildings SMCHS is proposing to either demolish
or alter as part of the campus Master Plan. The buildings ­ Vellesian Hall, St. Joseph's Hall, and
Cronin Hall ­ are noted in Figure 2, along with the current locations of all the facilities on the
campus.




Figure 2: Sketch map of the Saint Mary's College High School campus. The buildings included in this project are
                            numbered and correspond with the key at the lower left.


                                                      12
5.1. Vellesian Hall

Vellesian Hall (Photograph 2) is located in the southeast section of the SMCHS campus. San
Francisco architect Vincent Buckley designed the one-story, wood-frame building, which was
constructed in 1946. It is rectangular with an east-west alignment and rests on a reinforced
concrete foundation. Its low-pitch roof is hipped on the west end with a gable on the east end.
The roof is covered by rolled composite roofing and has a moderate overhang with closed eaves,
metal gutters, and downspouts. The sides of the building are clad in stucco. The north side of
the building has a recessed entryway containing a single wood door with a small security
window and a wood frame. A similar door is located on the east end of the building. A slightly
recessed single wood door is located on the south side. A roll-up aluminum door is located on
the west end of the building. The windows in the building are aluminum sliders with wood
frames and sills. Concrete steps and ramps provide access to all entrances.17




                   Photograph 2: Vellesian Hall, camera facing southeast, December 21, 2007.


5.2. Cronin Hall

Cronin Hall (Photographs 3 and 4) is located along the western edge of the SMCHS campus
and was also designed by Vincent Buckley. The building was constructed in two phases: the
northernmost two classrooms were a stand-alone, wood-frame building finished in 1952; the
remainder of the building was added in 1959. This extension of the original portion is also of
17
  Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., Evaluation of values and conditions of buildings on the St. Mary's College
High School Campus, 1978, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.


                                                      13
wood-frame construction and has a basement for most of its length. The entire building rests on
a reinforced concrete foundation and concrete footings and is rectangular with a north-south
alignment and a dogleg extension at the southwest end.18




                   Photograph 3: Cronin Hall, camera facing southwest, December 21, 2007.




                   Photograph 4: Cronin Hall, camera facing southeast, December 21, 2007.

18
  Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., Evaluation of values and conditions of buildings on the St. Mary's College
High School Campus, 1978, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.


                                                     14
The side gable roof is covered by composite shingles and has no overhang on the gable ends and
a slight overhang on the west side. An exterior hallways is situated under an extension of the
roof that shelters the entire east side of the building. Wood posts support the northern portion of
the hallway roof, along the first two classrooms, which is the portion constructed in 1952. Steel
posts and brick and stucco pillars at the middle and southeast corners support the remainder of
the hallway roof. The roof has open eaves with metal gutters and downspouts. The sides of the
building are clad in stucco. The east side of the building has a brick veneer skirt and has metal
lockers attached to the wall. The hallway on the east side of the building shelters the entrances
to several classrooms, each of which has a single metal door. Neither of the gable ends of the
building contains doors or windows. The top story of the building is at grade on the east side,
with the lower floor at grade on the west and south sides. The west side of the building contains
three single metal doors. The west side of the northern portion of the building contains two sets
of six, two-over-three aluminum windows with wood frames, the middle panes of which are
awning windows. The remaining windows on the top story are four sets of seven ribbon
windows in a one-over-three configuration. The lower floor windows are also one-over-three
wood frame windows. Concrete steps and ramps provide access to all entrances.

5.3. St. Joseph's Hall

St. Joseph's Hall (Photograph 5) is located near the center of the SMCHS campus, and was
designed by Vincent Buckley and Fred Houweling. The three-story building, constructed in
1956, has a rectangular plan, with a north-south alignment and reinforced concrete foundation.
The interior frame, including the columns, girders, and tie beams are also reinforced concrete.
Composite built-up roofing and red lava rock cover the slightly pitched hip roof. The roof has a
narrow overhang with closed eaves with metal gutters and downspouts. The top story of the
building is at grade on the north end, with the ground sloping away to the south. The basement
level is at grade on the south end of the building. The exterior of the first and second stories are
clad in a blonde Roman brick veneer. A band of stucco separates these bands of brick. Stucco
also covers the lower story of the building and the eastern side of the stairwell on the south end.

Two cartouches are located on the east side of the building. One is located in the stucco band
over the main entrance and a second is over the window lintel to the right of the main entrance.
Four glass-block windows forming a cross are located on the east side of the southern stairwell.
The remaining windows in the building are two-over-four or two-over-five aluminum windows
in which the middle panes tilt open as awning windows. The windows are contained within the
brick bands and are recessed with protruding brick sills.




                                                15
                 Photograph 5: St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing southwest, December 21, 2007.


The building has two main entrances. The east entrance is contained within the brick band on
the first story. A wide, cast-concrete door surround frames the door. The glass double door and
the window above it have aluminum frames. The door on the north side of the building
(Photograph 6) has a similar brick and cast-concrete surround, with a modern replacement
double glazed door. A matching door and surround is located on the south end of the building.
The entrances on the west side are single glazed wood doors with a transom window. All
entrances are accessible by concrete ramps and steps that were added in recent years
(Photograph 7 shows the appearance of the north end of the building before the addition of the
ramp and alteration of the north-end entry stairs).19




19
  Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., Evaluation of values and conditions of buildings on the St. Mary's College
High School Campus, 1978, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.


                                                     16
   Photograph 6: St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing south, December 21, 2007.




Photograph 7: St. Joseph's Hall, ca. 1957, showing original construction of north
           entrance. Photograph courtesy of De La Salle Institute.




                                       17
6. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

6.1. Evaluation Criteria

JRP used the CRHR and NRHP criteria to evaluate the historic significance of Vellesian Hall,
Cronin Hall, and St. Joseph's Hall on the SMCHS campus. Because the City of Albany, the lead
agency for this project, does not have a historic preservation ordinance, there were no local
criteria to apply.

The criteria for listing properties in the CRHR are in Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA
Guidelines, which provide the criteria from Section 20524.1 of the California Public Resources
Code. The CRHR is in the California Code of Regulations Title 14, Chapter 11.5. According to
this code, properties eligible for listing in the NRHP are automatically eligible for listing in the
CRHR. The CRHR criteria are largely based on the NRHP, which are codified in 36 CFR Part
60 and explained in guidelines published by the Keeper of the National Register.20

Eligibility for listing in either the NRHP or CRHR rests on twin factors of significance and
integrity. A property must have both significance and integrity to be considered eligible. Loss
of integrity, if sufficiently great, will overwhelm historical significance a property may possess
and render it ineligible. Likewise, a property can have complete integrity, but if it lacks
significance, it must also be considered ineligible.

Historic significance is judged by applying the NRHP and CRHR criteria. The NRHP criteria
are identified as Criteria A through D, the CRHR as Criteria 1 through 4. The NRHP guidelines
states that a historic resource's "quality of significance in American history, architecture,
archeology, engineering and culture" be determined by meeting at least one of the four main
criteria. Properties may be significant at the local, state, or national level:

        Criterion A: association with events or trends significant in the broad patterns of
                      our history;
        Criterion B: association with the lives of significant individuals;
        Criterion C: a property that embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type,
                      period, or method of construction, represents the work of a master,
                      or that possesses high artistic values;
        Criterion D: has yielded, or is likely to yield information important to history or
                      prehistory.



20
  The most widely accepted guidelines are contained in the U.S. Department of Interior, National Park Service,
"Guidelines for Applying the National Register Criteria for Evaluation," National Register Bulletin 15 (Washington
D.C.: US Government Printing, 1991, revised 1995 through 2002).


                                                       18
In general, Criterion D is used to evaluate historic sites and archaeological resources. Although
buildings and structures can occasionally be recognized for the important information they might
yield regarding historic construction or technologies, the buildings within the study area for this
project are of building types that are well documented. Thus, the buildings that are the subject of
this report are not a principal source of important information in this regard.

Certain property types are usually excluded from consideration for listing in the NRHP, but can
be considered if they meet special requirements in addition to meeting the regular criteria. The
following are the seven Criteria Considerations that deal with properties usually excluded from
listing in the National Register: 21

     Consideration A:   Religious Properties
     Consideration B:   Moved Properties
     Consideration C:   Birthplaces and Graves
     Consideration D:   Cemeteries
     Consideration E:   Reconstructed Properties
     Consideration F:   Commemorative Properties
     Consideration G:   Properties that have Achieved Significance within the Past
                        Fifty Years

Integrity is determined through applying seven factors to the historical resource. Those factors
are location, design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling, and association. These seven can
be roughly grouped into three types of integrity considerations. Location and setting relate to the
relationship between the property and its environment. Design, materials, and workmanship, as
they apply to historic buildings, relate to construction methods and architectural details. Feeling
and association are the least objective of the seven criteria, pertaining to the overall ability of the
property to convey a sense of the historical time and place in which it was constructed.

The CRHR criteria closely parallel those of the NRHP. Each resource must be determined to be
significant at the local, state, or national level under one of four criteria (paraphrased below) in
order to be determined eligible:

        Criterion 1: Resources associated with important events that have made a
        significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history.
        Criterion 2: Resources associated with the lives of persons important to our past.


21
  USDI, National Park Service, "How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation," National Register
Bulletin 15, 25, 41-43; USDI, National Park Service, "Guidelines for Evaluating and Nominating Properties that
have Achieved Significance within the Last Fifty Years," National Register Bulletin No. 22 (Washington, D.C.:
Government Printing Officer, 1979, revised 1990 and 1996).


                                                     19
        Criterion 3: Resources that embody the distinctive characteristics of a type,
        period, or method of construction, or represents the work of a master.
        Criterion 4: Resources that have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information
        important in prehistory or history.22

As was the case with NRHP Criterion D, the buildings in the study area do not appear to be
significant under CRHR Criterion 4 because they are not a principal source of important
information in this regard.

The CRHR definition of integrity and its special considerations for certain properties are slightly
different than those for the NRHP. Integrity is defined as "the authenticity of an historical
resource's physical identity evidenced by the survival of characteristics that existed during the
resource's period of significance." The CRHR further states that eligible resources must "retain
enough of their historic character or appearance to be recognizable as historical resources and to
convey the reasons for their significance," and lists the same seven aspects of integrity used for
evaluating properties under the NRHP criteria. The CRHR's special considerations for certain
properties types are limited to: 1) moved buildings, structures, or objects; 2) historical resources
achieving significance within the past fifty years; and 3) reconstructed buildings. The CRHR
does not have a special consideration for religious properties.

6.2. Historic Evaluation

None of the three buildings included in this project appear to meet the criteria for listing in the
NRHP or CRHR. The three buildings are evaluated as individual buildings within the context of
the development of SMCHS. The buildings do not have potential significance as contributors to
a historic district because, with its multiple late twentieth century buildings, the campus lacks
sufficient concentration of potential historical resources that might constitute a historic district.23

Under Criteria A (1), none of the three buildings appears to be significant because they lack
important association with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns
of local and regional history. SMCHS is associated with the development of Christian Brothers
Catholic education in California, which began in the 1860s. SMCHS was one of many
California schools administered by the Christian Brothers and includes buildings from a period
after the Catholic education system was well established in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Although the Peralta Park campus has association with Christian Brothers education as early as
1903, the buildings studied for this report date to the mid-twentieth century, 1946 to 1959, and


22
   California Public Resources Code, Sections 4850 through 4858; California Office of Historic Preservation,
"Instructions for Nominating Historical Resources to the California Register of Historical Resources," August 1997.
23
   U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for
Evaluation, (Washington D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1997).


                                                        20
illustrate the incremental improvements that were made to the campus as its older facilities
deteriorated. Each of these three buildings ­ Vellesian Hall, Cronin Hall, and St. Joseph's Hall ­
contributed to the development of SMCHS, but none can be associated with the important early
education efforts of the Christian Brothers in the San Francisco Bay Area. Furthermore, none of
the three buildings individually is importantly associated with trends or events that are
significant to local, regional, state, or national history.

Under Criteria B (2), none of the three buildings appears to be significant for their association
with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history.

Under Criteria C (3), none of the three buildings appears to be significant as an important
example of a type, period, or method of construction; nor do they appear to be the work of a
master artist or craftsman or possess high artistic values. Vellesian Hall is a utilitarian-designed
building that exhibits little significant architectural qualities of 1940s architecture. Similarly,
Cronin Hall is generally a utilitarian design that has the exterior hallway common to 1950s
school buildings in California. As discussed in Section 4, St. Joseph's Hall is designed in a
Contemporary Style incorporating some elements of mid-twentieth century Modernism while
adhering to the traditional building form of a conventional educational building. It is
representative of its period of construction, but is a modest example of 1950s-era educational
architecture and is not significant within its architectural context.

Vellesian Hall, Cronin Hall, and St. Joseph's Hall are not the work of a master. San Francisco
architect Vincent Buckley designed all three of the buildings in this project, with assistance from
architect Fred Houweling on St. Joseph's Hall. Early in his career, Buckley was a draftsman
with John J. Foley who did work for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese, including Star of the Sea
Church (1928) and Grammar School (1931) in Richmond. In the 1920s, Buckley was in the firm
Griewank & Buckley, construction engineers, and he worked with architect H.A. Minton who
also did work for the Archdiocese. In the 1950s, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church
in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno, and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland.
In spite of these commissions, the historic record does not provide evidence of Vincent
Buckley's significance as an architect. The record also revealed little information regarding the
career of Fred Houweling.24

As stated, none of the three buildings appears to be significant under Criteria D (4) because this
criterion is usually used to evaluate historic sites and archaeological resources. Although
buildings and structures can occasionally be recognized for the important information they might

24
   San Francisco Architectural Heritage, Inner Richmond Neighborhood Survey; "Parish Will Build Church Near
Lake," Oakland Tribune, August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Vincent Buckley are described on the
following webpages accessed on January 18, 2008: http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-
berkeley.org/history.html; http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html.


                                                      21
yield regarding historic construction or technologies, the SMCHS buildings are building types
that are well documented and are not a principal source of important information in this regard.

Vellesian Hall does not retain its historic integrity following the 1985 renovation that converted
the west end of the building into a maintenance shop, added a roll up garage door, and modified
the roof. Cronin Hall began as a small building with two classrooms before the 1959 expansion
to its current size. The building retains integrity to its 1959 construction. St. Joseph's Hall
retains a large degree of its historic integrity, with the primary exception of the entrance on the
north side and its accessible replacement door. Although the buildings retain some historic
integrity, they lack historic significance and thus none appears to meet the criteria for listing in
the NRHP.

Furthermore, if these buildings were to be eligible for listing in the NRHP their significance
would need to meet the NRHP Criteria Consideration A for Religious Properties because they
were constructed by and are presently owned by a religious institution, the Christian Brothers.
None of the three buildings meets the standards established by Criteria Consideration A because
they do not possess architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance.

Vellesian Hall, Cronin Hall, and St. Joseph's Hall at 1294 Albina Avenue have been evaluated in
accordance with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA Guidelines using the criteria outlined in
Section 5024.1 of the California Public Resources Code. None of these buildings appears to
meet the criteria for listing in the NRHP and CRHR. Thus, the three buildings included in this
study do not appear to be historical resources for the purposes of CEQA. Therefore, there will
be no substantial adverse changes to the significance of historical resources and no mitigation
measures will be necessary.




                                                22
7. BIBLIOGRAPHY

Published Sources

Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Services Club. The Story of The City of Albany,
      California. Albany[?], CA: Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Services Club,
      1947.

Department of Parks and Recreation. California Inventory of Historic Resources, March 1976.

Hoover, Mildred Brooke, Hero Eugene Rensch, and Ethel Grace Rensch. Historic Spots in
      California. Third Edition. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 1966.

Isetti, Ronald Eugene. Called to the Pacific: A History of the Christian Brothers of the San
         Francisco District, 1868-1944. Moraga, CA: St. Mary's College of California, 1979.

Lee, Warren F. and Catherine T. Lee. A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village,
      The City of Albany & Environs With Special Attention Given to the Richmond Shipyard
      Railway and the Albany Hill and Shoreline. Albuquerque, NM: Belvidere Delaware
      Railroad Company Enterprises, Ltd., 2000.

Office of Historic Preservation. California Historical Landmarks. Sacramento, California State
       Parks, 1996.

                            . California Points of Historical Interest. Sacramento, California
       State Parks, May 1992.

                          . Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data File for
       Alameda County. December 4, 2007.

                              . "Instructions for Nominating Historical Resources to the
       California Register of Historical Resources." August 1997.

U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service. How to Apply the National Register
      Criteria for Evaluation. Washington D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1997.

                            . How to Complete the National Register Registration Form,
       National Register Bulletin 16A. Washington, D.C.: U.S Government Printing Office,
       1992.

Webb, Catherine J. Stories of Albany. Albany, CA: Albany Historical Society, 1983.

Wollenberg, Charles. Berkeley, a City in History. [Berkeley, CA]: Printed by Berkeley Public
      Library, 2002.




                                             23
Writers' Program (California). Berkeley: The First Seventy-Five Years. Berkeley, CA: Gillick
       Press, 1941.

Newspapers

The Berkeley Daily Planet

Oakland Tribune

Unpublished Sources

Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc. "St. Mary's College High School, Grand Summary of Value."
       1978. Available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

Marquis Associates. "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's College High School." 1993.
      Available at Saint Mary's College High School.

McLaren, Kann and Associates. "St. Mary's College High School, Grand Summary of Value."
      1973. Available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

Miller, Andrea. "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th
        Anniversary: An Account of People and Events." Available at the De La Salle Institute,
        District Archives, Napa, CA.


Saint Mary's College High School. "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School
       Campus." Available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

Various Notes on the History of Saint Mary's College High School. Available at the De La Salle
       Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

Internet Resources

National Park Service, National Register Information System, online database. Available at
       http://www.nationalregisterofhistoricplaces.com/ca/Alameda/state.html          and
       http://www.nr.nps.gov/ (accessed January 8, 2008).

Alameda County Community Development Agency. "Alameda County Parks, Recreation &
      Historic Sites Directory." Available at http://www.acgov.org/cda/parks/ (accessed
      January 8, 2008).




                                              24
8. PREPARERS' QUALIFICATIONS

JRP partner Christopher McMorris (MS in Historic Preservation, Columbia University) was the
project manager for the preparation of this report. He provided general direction, report writing,
and editing of the report, DPR 523 forms, and graphics. Mr. McMorris has been with JRP since
1998 and based on his education and experience qualifies as a historian/architectural historian
under the Secretary of the Interior's Professional Qualification Standards (as defined in 36 CFR
Part 61).

Historian Mark A. Beason (MA in History, Arizona State University; Certificate in Historic
Preservation, University of Colorado, Denver) conducted project fieldwork, research, historic
evaluation, and report preparation. Mr. Beason has been with JRP since 2006 and, based on his
education and experience, qualifies as a historian under the Secretary of the Interior's
Professional Qualification Standards (as defined in 36 CFR Part 61). Research Assistants Marta
Knight, Karen Clementi, and Rebecca Flores also contributed to the research and preparation of
the report.




                                               25
APPENDIX A:

DPR 523 Forms
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                                Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                        HRI # ________________________________________
  PRIMARY RECORD                                                                            Trinomial _____________________________________
                                                                            NRHP Status Code            6Z
                                            Other Listings _______________________________________________________________
                                            Review Code __________ Reviewer ____________________________ Date ___________


Page 1 of    11                                               *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)            St. Joseph's Hall

P1. Other Identifier:
*P2. Location:      Not for Publication  Unrestricted                                 *a. County      Alameda
and (P2b and P2c or P2d. Attach a Location Map as necessary.)
*b. USGS 7.5' Quad  Richmond Date 1995 T ; R ; Sec                         ; MD B.M.
c. Address   1294 Albina Avenue City   Berkeley                            Zip 94706
d. UTM: (give more than one for large and/or linear resources)     Zone __; ________mE/ ______mN
e. Other Locational Data: (e.g., parcel #, directions to resource, elevation, etc., as appropriate)
Assessor Parcel Number: 65-2428-1
*P3a. Description: (Describe resource and its major elements. Include design, materials, condition, alterations, size, setting, and boundaries)
St. Joseph's Hall (Photograph 1) is located near the center of the campus of St. Mary's College High School in the City of
Albany in Alameda County. The school campus is also partially in Berkeley, and the school uses a Berkeley street address.
The three-story building, designed by Vincent Buckley and Fred Houweling, was constructed in 1956 and has a rectangular
plan with a north-south alignment and reinforced concrete foundation. The interior frame, including the columns, girders,
and tie beams are also reinforced concrete. Composite built-up roofing and red lava rock cover the slightly pitched hip roof.
The roof has a narrow overhang with closed eaves with metal gutters and downspouts. The top story of the building is at
grade on the north end, with the ground sloping away to the south. The basement level is at grade on the south end of the
building. (See Continuation Sheet.)

*P3b. Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes) HP15          (Educational Building); HP16 (Religious Building)
*P4. Resources Present:  Building         Structure    Object          Site      District     Element of District  Other (Isolates, etc.)
                                                                                                          P5b. Description of Photo: (View, date,
                                                                                                                   Photograph 1, St. Joseph's
                                                                                                          accession #)
                                                                                                          Hall, camera facing southwest,
                                                                                                          December 21, 2007.
                                                                                                          *P6. Date Constructed/Age and Sources:
                                                                                                           Historic   Prehistoric Both
                                                                                                          1956; Blueprints for St. Joseph's Hall
                                                                                                          *P7. Owner and Address:
                                                                                                          Saint Mary's College High School of
                                                                                                          Berkeley, Inc.
                                                                                                          1294 Albina Avenue
                                                                                                          Berkeley, CA 94706
                                                                                                          *P8. Recorded by: (Name, affiliation, address)
                                                                                                          Mark A. Beason
                                                                                                          JRP Historical Consulting, LLC
                                                                                                          1490 Drew Ave, Suite 110
                                                                                                          Davis, CA 95618
                                                                                                          *P9. Date Recorded: December 21, 2007
                                                                                                          *P10. Survey Type: (Describe) Intensive



*P11.  Report Citation: (Cite survey report and other sources, or enter "none.") JRP Historical Consulting, LLC, "Historic Resources
Inventory and Evaluation Report for St. Joseph's Hall, Cronin Hall, and Vellesian Hall at Saint Mary's College High School," prepared
for Lamphier-Gregory, 2008.
*Attachments:     NONE  Location Map       Sketch Map  Continuation Sheet  Building, Structure, and Object Record Archaeological Record
   District Record     Linear Feature Record      Milling Station Record      Rock Art Record         Artifact Record    Photograph Record
  Other (list) __________________
DPR 523A (1/95)                                                                                                                 *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                        Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                HRI # ________________________________________
  BUILDING, STRUCTURE, AND OBJECT RECORD

Page 2 of    11                                                                                         *NRHP Status Code     6Z
                                                             *Resource Name or #        (Assigned by recorder) St. Joseph's Hall
B1. Historic Name:St. Joseph's Hall
B2. Common Name: St. Joseph's Hall
B3. Original Use: School Library and Dormitory                 B4. Present Use:   School Library and Offices
*B5. Architectural Style: N/A
*B6. Construction History: (Construction date, alteration, and date of alterations) 1956;      renovated 1972-1973
*B7. Moved?  No         Yes      Unknown Date:                      Original Location:
*B8. Related Features:   n/a
B9. Architect:Vincent Buckley and Fred Houweling       b.                    Builder:   Unknown
*B10. Significance: Theme      n/a      Area          n/a
  Period of Significance       n/a      Property Type                               n/a          Applicable Criteria      n/a
(Discuss importance in terms of historical or architectural context as defined by theme, period, and geographic scope. Also address integrity.)


St. Joseph's Hall on the Saint Mary's College High School at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in
accordance with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA Guidelines outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California
Public Resources Code. The building lacks significance and therefore does not appear to meet the criteria for
listing in the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR)
and therefore does not appear to be a historical resource for the purposes of CEQA. (See Continuation Sheet.)




B11. Additional Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes)
                                                                                                (Sketch Map with north arrow required.)
*B12.    References: McLaren, Kann and Associates, "St.
Mary's College High School, Grand Summary of Value,"
1973; Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., "St. Mary's
College High School, Grand Summary of Value," 1978; "A
Short History of Saint Mary's College High School
Campus", ca. 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions
Survey, Saint Mary's College High School," February                                                 See Continuation Sheet.
1993; see footnotes.
B13. Remarks:




*B14. Evaluator: Mark     A. Beason
                     and Christopher McMorris
*Date of Evaluation:    January 2008
            (This space reserved for official comments)




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                                           *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                           Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                   HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                        Trinomial


Page 3 of 11                                                  *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation     Update


P3a. Description (continued):

The exterior of the first and second stories are clad in a blonde Roman brick veneer. A band of stucco separates these bands
of brick. Stucco also covers the lower story of the building and the eastern side of the stairwell on the south end.

Two cartouches are located on the east side of the building. One is located in the stucco band over the main entrance and a
second is over the window lintel to the right of the main entrance. Four glass-block windows forming a cross are located on
the east side of the southern stairwell. The remaining windows in the building are two-over-four or two-over-five aluminum
windows in which the middle panes tilt open as awning windows. The windows are contained within the brick bands and
are recessed with protruding brick sills.

The building has two main entrances. The east entrance is contained within the brick band on the first story. A wide, cast-
concrete door surround frames the door. The glass double door and the window above it have aluminum frames. The door
on the north side of the building (Photograph 3) has a similar brick and cast-concrete surround, with a modern replacement
double glazed door. A matching door and surround is located on the south end of the building. The entrances on the west
side are single glazed wood doors with a transom window. All entrances are accessible by concrete ramps and steps that
were added in recent years (Photograph 4 shows the appearance of the north end of the building before the addition of the
ramp and alteration of the north end entry stairs).1

B10. Significance

Historical Overview

Saint Mary's College High School is located in the southeast corner of the City of Albany at 1294 Albina Avenue. The
campus slightly straddles the line between Albany and the City of Berkeley which runs along Codornices Creek; however,
St. Joseph's Hall is located on the Albany side of the boundary. The De La Salle Christian Brothers first occupied the site in
1903 and still operate SMCHS. All of the buildings that currently comprise the school were constructed after World War II.
The following discussion describes the history of Saint Mary's College High School from its 1863 founding in San
Francisco to its history at the current location. Please reference the sketch map for the current locations of the buildings on
the campus.

Alameda County and Albany History

The City of Albany in Alameda County occupies the northern portion of what was once an expansive land grant called
Rancho San Antonio. The grant encompassed what is now Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville, Piedmont, and a portion of San
Leandro, and reached from the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay to crest of the Contra Costa hills. The last Spanish
Governor of California, Pablo Vicente de Sola, awarded a land grant of 43,000 acres to distinguished Spanish soldier Don
Luis Maria Peralta in 1820. Don Luis never lived on the rancho and in 1842, two decades after Mexico won its
independence from Spain, he divided the land equally between his four sons. Don Luis gave his son Domingo Peralta the
northern end of the grant, which now encompasses Albany and Berkeley. In 1849, Peralta's pastoral rancho lifestyle
changed dramatically with the Gold Rush.2


1
  Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., Evaluation of values and conditions of buildings on the St. Mary's College High School Campus,
1978, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.
2
  Mildred Brooke Hoover, Hero Eugene Rensch, and Ethel Grace Rensch, Historic Spots in California, (Stanford: Stanford University
Press, 1966), 9-10; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany, California, ([Albany?]:
Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, 1947), 3; The site of the First Berkeley Adobe has been designated a Point of
Historical Interest in Alameda County; California Office of Historic Preservation, Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                            *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                         Trinomial


Page 4 of 11                                                 *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason          *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation    Update

Settlers arriving with the Gold Rush quickly realized the value of Domingo Peralta's land and, by the time California
achieved statehood in 1850, many of those who did not gravitate to the gold mines purchased or illegally squatted on the
majority of what was formerly Peralta land. In 1853, California Governor Bigler authorized the creation of Alameda
County. The new county consisted of 760 square miles of land and 80 square miles of water.3

Early industrial development in the area began during the 1860s. The Civil War and the transcontinental railroad claimed
most of the gunpowder produced in the east. However, enterprising businessmen in Albany began producing gunpowder to
supplement the nation's supply, which became one of the principal industries in this portion of the East Bay that led to its
further development. In 1879, the Giant Gunpowder Company (which later became the Judson and Sheppard Chemical
Works) built a plant at Fleming Point on the current site of Golden Gate Fields racetrack. The plant closed in 1892 after
several deadly explosions. The Judson Dynamite and Powder Company followed with an explosives plant on the west slope
of Albany hill in 1898. It too suffered a series of deadly explosions and closed in 1905, ending the presence of the
explosives industry in Albany. The West Coast Kalsomine Company opened a shop on the west slope of Cerrito Hill that
produced the paints used on the 1915 Panama Pacific Exposition buildings in San Francisco.4

An important contributing factor to the settlement of what became Albany was the development of the University of
California in Berkeley. In 1868, the state of California designated the College of California, situated on the northwestern
portion of the former Rancho San Antonio, as the University of California. As the university grew, the surrounding area
provided housing, stores, and restaurants for the influx of students and professors.5

Settlement and development in the East Bay received another boost as refugees fled San Francisco following the 1906
earthquake and fires. Real estate companies in northern Alameda County promoted the undeveloped area in the East Bay as
a safer alternative to San Francisco. The population grew drastically in established cities like Berkeley following the
earthquake. Berkeley's population increased from approximately 13,000 to 40,000 between 1900 and 1910. During this
period, a conflict between the citizens of Berkeley and their neighbors led to the incorporation of the City of Albany. For
many years, Berkeley dumped its garbage in the area around San Pablo Avenue in an area called Ocean View. Citizens in
that area united to halt the dumping and to incorporate the town of Ocean View in 1908. Voters changed the name of the
new town to Albany in 1909. In 1927, Albany adopted its first official charter and the town formed its own school district in
1929.6 Albany's population expanded from 911 in 1910 to over 14,000 in 1945 largely because of employment
opportunities provided by war-related industries. The federal government subsidized housing projects in the Albany area for
the families of military personnel stationed in the Bay Area and employees of the Richmond shipyards.7

History of Saint Mary's College High School

Saint Mary's College High School began as part of Saint Mary's College in San Francisco. Archbishop Joseph Sadoc
Alemany established the college in the 1860s to bolster Catholic education in the area. He lobbied for the De La Salle
Christian Brothers, a respected teaching order, to come to California and administer the school, but the organization decided


File for Alameda County, December 4, 2007, 40; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany,
5; Catherine J. Webb, Stories of Albany, (Albany, CA: Albany Historical Society, 1983), 11.
3
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
4
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 9; Webb, Stories of Albany, 14; Warren F. Lee and Catherine T. Lee, A Selective
History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs, (Albuquerque: Belvidere Delaware Railroad Company
Enterprises, 2000), 79-80.
5
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
6
  Webb, Stories of Albany. 27, 81; Daniella Thompson, "East Bay Then and Now: Charles Manning MacGregor, Indefatigable Builder,"
The Berkeley Daily Planet, December 15, 2006.
7
  Webb, Stories of Albany, 71; Lee and Lee, A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs,
157-164; Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 62.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                           *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                             Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                     HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                           Trinomial


Page 5 of 11                                                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007              Continuation     Update

its American resources were too thin and could not be spared. In 1867, Alemany traveled to Rome and appealed to the Pope,
who granted his support to the plan. The following year, a group of Christian Brothers made the journey to the West Coast
and took control of Saint Mary's College.8

History of the Christian Brothers, San Francisco District

In San Francisco, the Christian Brothers took over a school with both day and boarding students ranging from primary to
university levels, which was a common arrangement at the time. The school succeeded in tripling the number of students in
a single year and increased its relationship with "feeder schools" in the area, including Saint Joseph's Academy in Oakland,
a grammar school founded in 1870. The San Francisco District of Christian Brothers also established or operated schools in
other parts of California (Sacramento, Oakland, Santa Barbara, San Rafael, and Santa Cruz) as well as Oregon and
Washington. These developments enabled Saint Mary's College to purchase land in Oakland, where they constructed a
large brick building to house the college and high school. The Christian Brothers moved St. Mary's College and High
School to the new brick building in Oakland in 1889. Fires nearly destroyed the Oakland facility in 1894 and 1918, but the
school rebuilt and continued in Oakland until 1927, when the high school and college split and relocated to Peralta Park and
Moraga, respectively.9

Peralta Park and the Christian Brothers

As mentioned above, squatters became a problem on Jose Domingo Peralta's property in Alameda County after the Gold
Rush. Peralta sold much of his holdings by 1853, and his heirs split the remaining land after his death in 1865. Portions of
the property changed owners multiple times before the 1880s, including 60 acres around Codornices Creek that later became
Peralta Park and the home of SMCHS. In 1887, Maurice B. Curtis purchased these 60 acres with plans to sell lots for a
residential subdivision. Curtis, a very popular actor, also constructed a grand hotel to serve as a retirement home for his
colleagues in the theater. The Peralta Park Hotel was completed and opened in 1891. The 60-room hotel was an extravagant
and large building with multiple spires and towers. The subdivision that surrounded the hotel became a desirable
neighborhood, and several large homes were constructed on the tree-lined lots. Despite the success of the subdivision, the
hotel quickly outdistanced its owner's finances, and Curtis sold the property to cover his debts. The hotel became Peralta
Hall and served as a boarding school, nightclub, and candy factory before the Christian Brothers purchased the property and
building in 1903.10

Saint Mary's College High School in Peralta Park

The Christian Brothers moved St. Joseph's Academy from Oakland to Peralta Hall in Peralta Park in 1903, when the area
was all still part of Berkeley. The large hotel building, now called Peralta Hall, offered much better facilities than the poor
conditions of their building in Oakland. Deteriorating facilities at the college and high school building in Oakland also
motivated the Brothers to consider relocating those students. As mentioned above, the college moved to new facilities in
Moraga in 1927. At the same time, the Christian Brothers commissioned a new three-story building at Peralta Park, De La
Salle Hall, to provide classrooms for the high school, and instruction began at the new location in 1927. Peralta Hall
continued to house St. Joseph's Academy and served as a dormitory for boarding students and brothers.11

8
  Andrea Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary: An Account of People and
Events," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA, 1-3; Ronald Eugene Isetti, Called to the Pacific: A History of
the Christian Brothers of the San Francisco District, 1868-1944, (Moraga, CA: St. Mary's College of California, 1979), 2-6.
9
  Martin, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary," 8-19; Isetti, Called to the Pacific,
43-48, 86-104.
10
    Writers' Program (California), Berkeley: The First Seventy-Five Years, (Berkeley, CA: Gillick Press, 1941), 95-96; Daniella
Thompson, "Maurice Curtis lent Berkeley brief splendor," Berkeley Daily Planet, June 9, 2006.
11
   Isetti, Called to the Pacific, 213-216, 258-260.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                              *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                          Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                  HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                       Trinomial


Page 6 of 11                                                  *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007           Continuation     Update

By the 1940s, the deteriorating condition of Peralta Hall prompted plans for new campus buildings. In 1946, those plans
became more pressing after a fire swept through the upper portion of the old hotel. After the fire, the top two stories were
determined structurally unsound and were removed for the safety of the students, but the lower floors remained in service as
the school library and dormitory. New construction on the Peralta Park campus began in the 1940s and continued over the
next decade as demand for updated facilities grew. One of the new buildings, constructed in 1956, was St. Joseph's Hall,
located south of the gymnasium and designed by Vincent Buckley and Fred Houweling. This two-story building was
constructed following common academic building configuration. The rectangular footprint design was built with a center
hall flanking classrooms on the first story with a library at one end, and included the student dormitory on the upper floor.12
In 1959, seismic inadequacies forced the school to demolish the remaining portion of Peralta Hall.13 The oblique aerial
photo below (Photograph 2) shows the campus around 1959 following the demolition of Peralta Hall and illustrates the
relationship of St. Joseph's Hall to the other campus buildings. The "L" shaped De La Salle Hall was prominently situated,
at this time, on the east side of campus south of the sports field and north of Vellesian Hall.14




                                    Photograph 2: Aerial photograph of the campus from 1959. Photo
                                      courtesy of De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

After 1960 and over the next several decades, changes continued at the SMCHS campus. With its limited space in Peralta
Park, the school remodeled several buildings, built additions, altered the landscape features, used and then replaced
temporary buildings, and built new buildings in much of the remaining open space on campus. The school concentrated

12
   Along with his designs for SMCHS, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno,
and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland, all in the 1950s. Research did not produce further information about Houweling. "Parish
Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune, August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Buckley are described on the following
webpages accessed on January 18, 2008: http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html;
http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html
13
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-12, 25-27.
14
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa,
CA; Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco...," 19-20; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint
Mary's College High School," 7-9, available at Saint Mary's College High School. Although some sources suggest that Vellesian Hall
was not built until 1959, this report relies upon the 1946 date as reported by Marquis Associates.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                            *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 7 of 11                                               *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update

most of its development on the west side of campus, even after De La Salle Hall was demolished. In 1969, the grammar
boarding school, St. Joseph's Academy, relocated to the Christian Brothers' district headquarters at Mont La Salle in Napa,
leaving the entire Peralta Park campus to the high school. In order to accommodate the school's anticipated needs over the
next decades, the Christian Brothers commissioned and instituted a master plan in the early 1970s. De La Salle Hall was
demolished in 1973 because of seismic deficiencies, so much of the master plan was devoted to making up for the lost space.
The upper floor dorm rooms in St. Joseph's Hall were converted to office space in 1972. In the last twenty years, changes
have continued at SMCHS. The school became co-educational in 1995 and changed to an all day-student population. The
campus has continued to evolve with alterations to buildings and the replacement of temporary classrooms with permanent
classroom buildings in 1986 and 2002. The current master plan for the campus recommends further measures intended to
meet the evolving needs of Saint Mary's College High School, including the expansion of St. Joseph's Hall.15

The various periods of construction and development led to a variety of architectural expressions on campus, with little
apparent architectural continuity over time. The architecture of the older buildings on campus ranges from the utilitarian
design of Vellesian Hall to the Moderne style of the older portion of the gymnasium and mid-twentieth century
Contemporary style of St. Joseph's Hall. Cronin Hall is generally a utilitarian style building that incorporates the exterior
hallway design common to California schools built in the 1950s.

St. Joseph's Hall, situated at the main entrance driveway and originally built opposite De La Salle Hall, was, as noted above,
built with a common form for educational buildings that included a symmetrical façade around a main entrance, central main
hall, and multitude of windows. Its exterior design provided an updated appearance for the traditionally laid out academic
building. The style of St. Joseph's Hall can be referred to as "Contemporary style," which denotes a combination of
elements that derive, in part, from mid-twentieth century Modernism along with traditional forms. The low-pitch roof, wide
eaves, and bands of brick cladding and concrete, influenced by the unadorned, efficient, and functional tenets of Modernism,
provide a strong horizontal emphasis to the design of St. Joseph's Hall. This is enhanced by the slender metal frame
fenestration with shallow insets. There is also only modest architectural detailing, such as the cast concrete door surrounds,
cartouches, and glass block windows forming a cross. Although its lack of ornament and horizontality follow some
elements of mid-twentieth century Modernism, its general form and layout also complement the traditional form of
conventional, rectangular educational buildings, such as De La Salle Hall.

Discussion of Potential Significance

St. Joseph's Hall does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in the NRHP or CRHR.16

Under Criteria A (1), St. Joseph's Hall does not appear to be significant because it lacks important associations with events
that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local and regional history. SMCHS is associated with the
development of Christian Brothers Catholic education in California, which began in the 1860s. SMCHS was one of many
California schools administered by the Christian Brothers and includes buildings from a period after the Catholic education
system was well established in the San Francisco Bay Area. Although the Peralta Park campus has association with
Christian Brothers education as early as 1903, St. Joseph's Hall dates to 1956 and illustrates the incremental improvements
that were made to the campus as its older facilities deteriorated. While St. Joseph's Hall contributed to the development of
SMCHS, it cannot be associated with the important early education efforts of the Christian Brothers in the San Francisco
Bay Area. Furthermore, the building is not individually importantly associated with trends or events that are significant to
local, regional, state, or national history.


15
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-31; "80 Years at Peralta Park," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.
16
   U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, (Washington
D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1997).
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                         *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                        Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                     Trinomial


Page 8 of 11                                                *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007         Continuation     Update

Under Criteria B (2), St. Joseph's Hall does not appear to be significant for its association with the lives of persons
important to local, California, or national history.

Under Criteria C (3), St. Joseph's Hall does not appear to be significant as an important example of a type, period, or method
of construction; nor does it appear to be the work of a master artist or craftsman or possess high artistic values. As discussed
above, St. Joseph's Hall is designed in a Contemporary Style modestly incorporating some elements of mid-twentieth
century Modernism while adhering to the traditional building form of a conventional educational building. It is
representative of its period of construction, but is a modest example of 1950s-era educational architecture and is not
significant within its architectural context.

St. Joseph's Hall is not the work of a master. San Francisco architect Vincent Buckley designed the building with assistance
from architect Fred Houweling. Early in his career, Buckley was a draftsman with John J. Foley who did work for the
Roman Catholic Archdiocese, including Star of the Sea Church (1928) and Grammar School (1931) in Richmond. In the
1920s, Buckley was in the firm Griewank & Buckley, construction engineers, and he worked with architect H.A. Minton
who also did work for the Archdiocese. In the 1950s, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the
Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno, and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland. In spite of these commissions, the historic
record does not provide evidence of Vincent Buckley's significance as an architect. The record also revealed little
information regarding the career of Fred Houweling.17

St. Joseph's Hall does not appear to be significant under Criteria D (4) because this criterion is usually used to evaluate
historic sites and archaeological resources. Although buildings and structures can occasionally be recognized for the
important information they might yield regarding historic construction or technologies, St. Joseph's Hall is a building type
that is well documented and is not a principal source of important information in this regard.

St. Joseph's Hall retains a large degree of its historic integrity, with the primary exception of the entrance on the north side
and its accessible replacement door. Although the building retains some historic integrity, it lacks historic significance and
thus does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in the NRHP or CRHR.

Furthermore, if this building was eligible for listing in the NRHP, its significance would need to meet the NRHP Criteria
Consideration A for Religious Properties because it was constructed by and is presently owned by a religious institution, the
Christian Brothers. St. Joseph's Hall does not meet the standards established by Criteria Consideration A because it does
not possess architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance.

St. Joseph's Hall at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in accordance with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA
Guidelines using the criteria outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California Public Resources Code. It does not appear to meet
the criteria for listing in the NRHP and CRHR.




17
   William Buetner, San Francisco Architectural Heritage, personal communications with Christopher McMorris, JRP, January 28, 2008;
San Francisco Architectural Heritage, Inner Richmond Neighborhood Survey; "Parish Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune,
August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Vincent Buckley are described on the following webpages accessed on January 18, 2008:
http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html; http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                          *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 9 of 11                                            *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Photographs




                                  Photograph 3. St. Joseph's Hall, camera facing south.




                       Photograph 4. St. Joseph's Hall, ca. 1957, showing original construction
                           of north entrance. Photograph courtesy of De La Salle Institute.




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 10 of  11                                          *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Location Map:




                  Base Map: US Geologic Survey. Richmond, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1995,
                             and Oakland West, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1993.


DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 11 of  11                                          *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   St. Joseph's Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Sketch Map:




                  Sketch map of the Saint Mary's College High School campus. St. Joseph's Hall is
                                       indicated by the number 2 on the map.




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                                Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                        HRI # ________________________________________
  PRIMARY RECORD                                                                            Trinomial _____________________________________
                                                                            NRHP Status Code            6Z
                                            Other Listings _______________________________________________________________
                                            Review Code __________ Reviewer ____________________________ Date ___________


Page 1 of    11                                               *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)            Cronin Hall

P1. Other Identifier:
*P2. Location:      Not for Publication  Unrestricted                                 *a. County      Alameda
and (P2b and P2c or P2d. Attach a Location Map as necessary.)
*b. USGS 7.5' Quad  Richmond Date 1995 T ; R ; Sec                         ; MD B.M.
c. Address   1294 Albina Avenue City   Berkeley                            Zip 94706
d. UTM: (give more than one for large and/or linear resources)     Zone __; ________mE/ ______mN
e. Other Locational Data: (e.g., parcel #, directions to resource, elevation, etc., as appropriate)
Assessor Parcel Number: 65-2428-1
*P3a. Description: (Describe resource and its major elements. Include design, materials, condition, alterations, size, setting, and boundaries)
Cronin Hall is located along the west edge of the campus of St. Mary's College High School in the City of Albany in
Alameda County. The school campus is also partially in Berkeley, and the school uses a Berkeley street address. The
building was constructed in two phases: the northernmost two classrooms (Photograph 1) were a stand-alone, wood-frame
building completed in 1952; the remainder of the building (Photograph 3) was added in 1959. This extension of the
original portion is also of wood-frame construction and has a basement for most of its length. The entire building rests on a
reinforced concrete foundation and concrete footings and is rectangular with a north-south alignment and a dogleg extension
at the southwest end. (See Continuation Sheet.)

*P3b. Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes) HP15         (Educational Building); HP16 (Religious Building)
*P4. Resources Present:  Building         Structure    Object          Site      District     Element of District  Other (Isolates, etc.)
                                                                                                             P5b. Description of Photo: (View, date,
                                                                                                                       Photograph 1, Cronin Hall,
                                                                                                             accession #)
                                                                                                             camera facing southwest, December
                                                                                                             21, 2007.
                                                                                                             *P6. Date Constructed/Age and Sources:
                                                                                                              Historic   Prehistoric Both
                                                                                                             1952 and 1959; Conditions Survey
                                                                                                             (1993), Saint Mary's College High
                                                                                                             School
                                                                                                             *P7. Owner and Address:
                                                                                                             Saint Mary's College High School of
                                                                                                             Berkeley, Inc.
                                                                                                             1294 Albina Avenue
                                                                                                             Berkeley, CA 94706
                                                                                                             *P8. Recorded by: (Name, affiliation, address)
                                                                                                             Mark A. Beason
                                                                                                             JRP Historical Consulting, LLC
                                                                                                             1490 Drew Ave, Suite 110
                                                                                                             Davis, CA 95618
                                                                                                             *P9. Date Recorded: December 21, 2007
                                                                                                             *P10. Survey Type: (Describe) Intensive


*P11.  Report Citation: (Cite survey report and other sources, or enter "none.") JRP Historical Consulting, LLC, "Historic Resources
Inventory and Evaluation Report for St. Joseph's Hall, Cronin Hall, and Vellesian Hall at Saint Mary's College High School," prepared
for Lamphier-Gregory, 2008.
*Attachments:     NONE  Location Map       Sketch Map  Continuation Sheet  Building, Structure, and Object Record Archaeological Record
   District Record     Linear Feature Record      Milling Station Record      Rock Art Record         Artifact Record       Photograph Record
  Other (list) __________________
DPR 523A (1/95)                                                                                                                   *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                        Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                HRI # ________________________________________
  BUILDING, STRUCTURE, AND OBJECT RECORD

Page 2 of    11                                                                                         *NRHP Status Code            6Z
                                                             *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Cronin Hall
B1. Historic Name:Cronin Hall
B2. Common Name: Cronin Hall
B3. Original Use: Classrooms B4.         Present Use:   Classrooms
*B5. Architectural Style: N/A
*B6. Construction History: (Construction date, alteration, and date of alterations) 1952      (north section); 1959 (south section)
*B7. Moved?  No         Yes      Unknown Date:                      Original Location:
*B8. Related Features:   n/a
B9. Architect:   Vincent Buckley            b. Builder: Midstate Construction Company, Richmond, CA
*B10. Significance: Theme               n/a          Area          n/a
   Period of Significance                n/a         Property Type       n/a     Applicable Criteria n/a
(Discuss importance in terms of historical or architectural context as defined by theme, period, and geographic scope. Also address integrity.)


Cronin Hall on the Saint Mary's College High School at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in accordance
with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA Guidelines outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California Public
Resources Code. The building lacks significance and therefore does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in
the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR) and
therefore does not appear to be a historical resource for the purposes of CEQA. (See Continuation Sheet.)




B11. Additional Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes)

*B12.  References: McLaren, Kann and Associates, "St.
                                                                                                 (Sketch Map with north arrow required.)
Mary's College High School, Grand Summary of Value,"
1973; Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., "St. Mary's
College High School, Grand Summary of Value," 1978; "A
Short History of Saint Mary's College High School
Campus", ca. 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions
Survey, Saint Mary's College High School," February
1993; see footnotes.
                                                                                                     See Continuation Sheet.
B13. Remarks:




*B14. Evaluator: Mark     A. Beason
                     and Christopher McMorris
*Date of Evaluation:    January 2008
            (This space reserved for official comments)




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                                           *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                           Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                   HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                        Trinomial


Page 3 of 11                                                  *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation     Update


P3a. Description (continued):

The side gable roof is covered by composite shingles and has no overhang on the gable ends and a slight overhang on the
west side. An exterior hallway is under the roof extension over the entire east side of the building. Wood posts support the
northern portion of the hallway roof. Steel posts and brick and stucco pillars at the middle and southeast corners support the
remainder of the hallway roof. The roof has open eaves with metal gutters and downspouts. The sides of the building are
clad in stucco. The east side of the building has a brick veneer skirt and has metal lockers attached to the wall. The hallway
on the east side of the building shelters the entrances to several classrooms, each of which has a single metal door. Neither
of the gable ends of the building contains doors or windows. The top story of the building is at grade on the east side, with
the lower floor at grade on the west and south sides (Photograph 4). The west side of the building contains three single
metal doors. The west side of the northern portion of the building contains two sets of six, two-over-three aluminum
windows with wood frames, the middle panes of which are awning windows. The remaining windows on the top story are
four sets of seven ribbon windows in a one-over-three configuration. The lower floor windows are also one-over-three wood
frame windows. Concrete steps and ramps provide access to all entrances.1

B10. Significance

Historical Overview

Saint Mary's College High School is located in the southeast corner of the City of Albany at 1294 Albina Avenue. The
campus slightly straddles the line between Albany and the City of Berkeley which runs along Codornices Creek; however,
St. Joseph's Hall is located on the Albany side of the boundary. The De La Salle Christian Brothers first occupied the site in
1903 and still operate SMCHS. All of the buildings that currently comprise the school were constructed after World War II.
The following discussion describes the history of Saint Mary's College High School from its 1863 founding in San
Francisco to its history at the current location. Please reference the sketch map in Figure 2 for the current locations of the
buildings on the campus.

Alameda County and Albany History

The City of Albany in Alameda County occupies the northern portion of what was once an expansive land grant called
Rancho San Antonio. The grant encompassed what is now Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville, Piedmont, and a portion of San
Leandro, and reached from the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay to crest of the Contra Costa hills. The last Spanish
Governor of California, Pablo Vicente de Sola, awarded a land grant of 43,000 acres to distinguished Spanish soldier Don
Luis Maria Peralta in 1820. Don Luis never lived on the rancho and in 1842, two decades after Mexico won its
independence from Spain, he divided the land equally between his four sons. Don Luis gave his son Domingo Peralta the
northern end of the grant, which now encompasses Albany and Berkeley. In 1849, Peralta's pastoral rancho lifestyle
changed dramatically with the Gold Rush.2

Settlers arriving with the Gold Rush quickly realized the value of Domingo Peralta's land and, by the time California
achieved statehood in 1850, many of those who did not gravitate to the gold mines purchased or illegally squatted on the

1
  Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., Evaluation of values and conditions of buildings on the St. Mary's College High School Campus,
1978, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.
2
  Mildred Brooke Hoover, Hero Eugene Rensch, and Ethel Grace Rensch, Historic Spots in California, (Stanford: Stanford University
Press, 1966), 9-10; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany, California, ([Albany?]:
Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, 1947), 3; The site of the First Berkeley Adobe has been designated a Point of
Historical Interest in Alameda County; California Office of Historic Preservation, Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data
File for Alameda County, December 4, 2007, 40; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany,
5; Catherine J. Webb, Stories of Albany, (Albany, CA: Albany Historical Society, 1983), 11.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                            *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                          Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                  HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                       Trinomial


Page 4 of 11                                                 *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007           Continuation    Update

majority of what was formerly Peralta land. In 1853, California Governor Bigler authorized the creation of Alameda
County. The new county consisted of 760 square miles of land and 80 square miles of water.3

Early industrial development in the area began during the 1860s. The Civil War and the transcontinental railroad claimed
most of the gunpowder produced in the east. However, enterprising businessmen in Albany began producing gunpowder to
supplement the nation's supply, which became one of the principal industries in this portion of the East Bay that led to its
further development. In 1879, the Giant Gunpowder Company (which later became the Judson and Sheppard Chemical
Works) built a plant at Fleming Point on the current site of Golden Gate Fields racetrack. The plant closed in 1892 after
several deadly explosions. The Judson Dynamite and Powder Company followed with an explosives plant on the west slope
of Albany hill in 1898. It too suffered a series of deadly explosions and closed in 1905, ending the presence of the
explosives industry in Albany. The West Coast Kalsomine Company opened a shop on the west slope of Cerrito Hill that
produced the paints used on the 1915 Panama Pacific Exposition buildings in San Francisco.4

An important contributing factor to the settlement of what became Albany was the development of the University of
California in Berkeley. In 1868, the state of California designated the College of California, situated on the northwestern
portion of the former Rancho San Antonio, as the University of California. As the university grew, the surrounding area
provided housing, stores, and restaurants for the influx of students and professors.5

Settlement and development in the East Bay received another boost as refugees fled San Francisco following the 1906
earthquake and fires. Real estate companies in northern Alameda County promoted the undeveloped area in the East Bay as
a safer alternative to San Francisco. The population grew drastically in established cities like Berkeley following the
earthquake. Berkeley's population increased from approximately 13,000 to 40,000 between 1900 and 1910. During this
period, a conflict between the citizens of Berkeley and their neighbors led to the incorporation of the City of Albany. For
many years, Berkeley dumped its garbage in the area around San Pablo Avenue in an area called Ocean View. Citizens in
that area united to halt the dumping and to incorporate the town of Ocean View in 1908. Voters changed the name of the
new town to Albany in 1909. In 1927, Albany adopted its first official charter and the town formed its own school district in
1929.6 Albany's population expanded from 911 in 1910 to over 14,000 in 1945 largely because of employment
opportunities provided by war-related industries. The federal government subsidized housing projects in the Albany area for
the families of military personnel stationed in the Bay Area and employees of the Richmond shipyards.7

History of Saint Mary's College High School

Saint Mary's College High School began as part of Saint Mary's College in San Francisco. Archbishop Joseph Sadoc
Alemany established the college in the 1860s to bolster Catholic education in the area. He lobbied for the De La Salle
Christian Brothers, a respected teaching order, to come to California and administer the school, but the organization decided
its American resources were too thin and could not be spared. In 1867, Alemany traveled to Rome and appealed to the Pope,




3
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
4
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 9; Webb, Stories of Albany, 14; Warren F. Lee and Catherine T. Lee, A Selective
History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs, (Albuquerque: Belvidere Delaware Railroad Company
Enterprises, 2000), 79-80.
5
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
6
  Webb, Stories of Albany. 27, 81; Daniella Thompson, "East Bay Then and Now: Charles Manning MacGregor, Indefatigable Builder,"
The Berkeley Daily Planet, December 15, 2006.
7
  Webb, Stories of Albany, 71; Lee and Lee, A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs,
157-164; Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 62.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                           *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                             Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                     HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                           Trinomial


Page 5 of 11                                                    *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007              Continuation     Update

who granted his support to the plan. The following year, a group of Christian Brothers made the journey to the West Coast
and took control of Saint Mary's College.8

History of the Christian Brothers, San Francisco District

In San Francisco, the Christian Brothers took over a school with both day and boarding students ranging from primary to
university levels, which was a common arrangement at the time. The school succeeded in tripling the number of students in
a single year and increased its relationship with "feeder schools" in the area, including Saint Joseph's Academy in Oakland,
a grammar school founded in 1870. The San Francisco District of Christian Brothers also established or operated schools in
other parts of California (Sacramento, Oakland, Santa Barbara, San Rafael, and Santa Cruz) as well as Oregon and
Washington. These developments enabled Saint Mary's College to purchase land in Oakland, where they constructed a
large brick building to house the college and high school. The Christian Brothers moved St. Mary's College and High
School to the new brick building in Oakland in 1889. Fires nearly destroyed the Oakland facility in 1894 and 1918, but the
school rebuilt and continued in Oakland until 1927, when the high school and college split and relocated to Peralta Park and
Moraga, respectively.9

Peralta Park and the Christian Brothers

As mentioned above, squatters became a problem on Jose Domingo Peralta's property in Alameda County after the Gold
Rush. Peralta sold much of his holdings by 1853, and his heirs split the remaining land after his death in 1865. Portions of
the property changed owners multiple times before the 1880s, including 60 acres around Codornices Creek that later became
Peralta Park and the home of SMCHS. In 1887, Maurice B. Curtis purchased these 60 acres with plans to sell lots for a
residential subdivision. Curtis, a very popular actor, also constructed a grand hotel to serve as a retirement home for his
colleagues in the theater. The Peralta Park Hotel was completed and opened in 1891. The 60-room hotel was an extravagant
and large building with multiple spires and towers. The subdivision that surrounded the hotel became a desirable
neighborhood, and several large homes were constructed on the tree-lined lots. Despite the success of the subdivision, the
hotel quickly outdistanced its owner's finances, and Curtis sold the property to cover his debts. The hotel became Peralta
Hall and served as a boarding school, nightclub, and candy factory before the Christian Brothers purchased the property and
building in 1903.10

Saint Mary's College High School in Peralta Park

The Christian Brothers moved St. Joseph's Academy from Oakland to Peralta Hall in Peralta Park in 1903, when the area
was all still part of Berkeley. The large hotel building, now called Peralta Hall, offered much better facilities than the poor
conditions of their building in Oakland. Deteriorating facilities at the college and high school building in Oakland also
motivated the Brothers to consider relocating those students. As mentioned above, the college moved to new facilities in
Moraga in 1927. At the same time, the Christian Brothers commissioned a new three-story building at Peralta Park, De La
Salle Hall, to provide classrooms for the high school, and instruction began at the new location in 1927. Peralta Hall
continued to house St. Joseph's Academy and served as a dormitory for boarding students and brothers.11


8
  Andrea Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary: An Account of People and
Events," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA, 1-3; Ronald Eugene Isetti, Called to the Pacific: A History of
the Christian Brothers of the San Francisco District, 1868-1944, (Moraga, CA: St. Mary's College of California, 1979), 2-6.
9
  Martin, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary," 8-19; Isetti, Called to the Pacific,
43-48, 86-104.
10
    Writers' Program (California), Berkeley: The First Seventy-Five Years, (Berkeley, CA: Gillick Press, 1941), 95-96; Daniella
Thompson, "Maurice Curtis lent Berkeley brief splendor," Berkeley Daily Planet, June 9, 2006.
11
   Isetti, Called to the Pacific, 213-216, 258-260.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                              *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                         Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                 HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                      Trinomial


Page 6 of 11                                                 *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007         Continuation     Update

By the 1940s, the deteriorating condition of Peralta Hall prompted plans for new campus buildings. In 1946, those plans
became more pressing after a fire swept through the upper portion of the old hotel. After the fire, the top two stories were
determined structurally unsound and were removed for the safety of the students, but the lower floors remained in service as
the school library and dormitory. New construction on the Peralta Park campus began in the 1940s and continued over the
next decade as demand for updated facilities grew. One of the new buildings, constructed in 1952, was the first phase of
Cronin Hall, located next to the 1948 gymnasium and designed by San Francisco architect Vincent Buckley.12 In 1959,
seismic inadequacies forced the school to demolish the remaining portion of Peralta Hall. In the same year, Cronin Hall was
expanded to the south along the western border of the campus, adding more classroom space for the high school.13 The
oblique aerial photo below (Photograph 2) shows the campus around 1959, following the demolition of Peralta Hall and
construction of Cronin Hall's extension. The gymnasium, with its prominent façade pilasters, is situated north of St.
Joseph's Hall and to the east of Cronin Hall. The "L" shaped De La Salle Hall was prominently situated, at this time, on the
east side of campus south of the sports field and north of Vellesian Hall.




                           Photograph 2: Aerial photograph of the campus from 1959. Photo courtesy of De La
                                              Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

After 1960 and over the next several decades, changes continued at the SMCHS campus. With its limited space on its
Peralta Park property, the school remodeled several buildings, built additions, altered the landscape features, used and then
replaced temporary buildings, and built new buildings in much of the remaining open space on campus. The school
concentrated most of its development on the west side of campus, even after De La Salle Hall was demolished. In 1969, the
grammar boarding school, St. Joseph's Academy, relocated to the Christian Brothers' district headquarters at Mont La Salle
in Napa, leaving the entire Peralta Park campus to the high school. In order to accommodate the school's anticipated needs

12
   Along with his designs for SMCHS, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno,
and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland, all in the 1950s. Research did not produce further information about Houweling. "Parish
Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune, August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Buckley are described on the following
webpages accessed on January 18, 2008: http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html;
http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html
13
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-12, 25-27.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                           *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 7 of 11                                               *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update

over the next decades, the Christian Brothers commissioned and instituted a master plan in the early 1970s. De La Salle Hall
was demolished in 1973 because of seismic deficiencies, so much of the master plan was devoted to making up for the lost
space. New buildings included a new cafeteria and gymnasium expansion in 1976 and a new Brothers' Residence in 1978.
In the last twenty years, changes have continued at SMCHS. The school became co-educational in 1995 and changed to an
all day-student population. The campus has continued to evolve with alterations to buildings and the replacement of
temporary classrooms with permanent classroom buildings in 1986 and 2002. The current master plan for the campus
recommends further measures intended to meet the evolving needs of Saint Mary's College High School, including the
renovation of Cronin Hall.14

The various periods of construction and development led to a variety of architectural expressions on campus, with little
apparent architectural continuity over time. The architecture of the older buildings on campus ranges from the utilitarian
design of Vellesian Hall to the Moderne style of the older portion of the gymnasium and mid-twentieth century
Contemporary style of St. Joseph's Hall. Cronin Hall is generally a utilitarian style building that incorporates the exterior
hallway design common to California schools built in the 1950s.

Discussion of Potential Significance

Cronin Hall does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in the NRHP or CRHR.15

Under Criteria A (1), Cronin Hall does not appear to be significant because it lacks important associations with events that
have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local and regional history. SMCHS is associated with the
development of Christian Brothers Catholic education in California, which began in the 1860s. SMCHS was one of many
California schools administered by the Christian Brothers and includes buildings from a period after the Catholic education
system was well established in the San Francisco Bay Area. Although the Peralta Park campus has association with
Christian Brothers education as early as 1903, Cronin Hall dates to 1952 (and enlarged in 1959) and illustrates the
incremental improvements that were made to the campus as its older facilities deteriorated. While Cronin Hall contributed
to the development of SMCHS, it cannot be associated with the important early education efforts of the Christian Brothers in
the San Francisco Bay Area. Furthermore, the building is not individually importantly associated with trends or events that
are significant to local, regional, state, or national history.

Under Criteria B (2), Cronin Hall does not appear to be significant for its association with the lives of persons important to
local, California, or national history.

Under Criteria C (3), Cronin Hall does not appear to be significant as an important example of a type, period, or method of
construction; nor does it appear to be the work of a master artist or craftsman or possess high artistic values. As discussed
above, Vellesian Hall has a utilitarian design with an exterior hallway design common to school buildings in California
constructed in the 1950s. The building is also not the work of a master. San Francisco architect Vincent Buckley designed
the building. Early in his career, Buckley was a draftsman with John J. Foley who did work for the Roman Catholic
Archdiocese, including Star of the Sea Church (1928) and Grammar School (1931) in Richmond. In the 1920s, Buckley was
in the firm Griewank & Buckley, construction engineers, and he worked with architect H.A. Minton who also did work for
the Archdiocese. In the 1950s, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in




14
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-31; "80 Years at Peralta Park," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.
15
   U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, (Washington
D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1997).
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                         *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                        Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                     Trinomial


Page 8 of 11                                                *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007         Continuation     Update

Fresno, and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland. In spite of these commissions, the historic record does not provide
evidence of Vincent Buckley's significance as an architect.16

Cronin Hall does not appear to be significant under Criteria D (4) because this criterion is usually used to evaluate historic
sites and archaeological resources. Although buildings and structures can occasionally be recognized for the important
information they might yield regarding historic construction or technologies, Cronin Hall is a building type that is well
documented and is not a principal source of important information in this regard.

Cronin Hall began as a small building with two classrooms before the 1959 expansion to its current size. The building
retains integrity to its 1959 construction; however, it lacks historic significance and thus does not appear to meet the criteria
for listing in the NRHP.

Furthermore, if this building was eligible for listing in the NRHP, its significance would need to meet the NRHP Criteria
Consideration A for Religious Properties because it was constructed by and is presently owned by a religious institution, the
Christian Brothers. Cronin Hall does not meet the standards established by Criteria Consideration A because it does not
possess architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance.

Cronin Hall at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in accordance with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA
Guidelines using the criteria outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California Public Resources Code. It does not appear to meet
the criteria for listing in the NRHP and CRHR.




16
   William Buetner, San Francisco Architectural Heritage, personal communications with Christopher McMorris, JRP, January 28, 2008;
San Francisco Architectural Heritage, Inner Richmond Neighborhood Survey; "Parish Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune,
August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Vincent Buckley are described on the following webpages accessed on January 18, 2008:
http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html; http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                          *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 9 of 11                                            *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Photographs




                                  Photograph 3: Cronin Hall, camera facing northwest.




                                   Photograph 4. Cronin Hall, camera facing southeast.

DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 10 of  11                                          *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Location Map:




                  Base Map: US Geologic Survey. Richmond, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1995,
                             and Oakland West, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1993.


DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                       Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                               HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                    Trinomial


Page 11 of  11                                          *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)   Cronin Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007       Continuation     Update


Sketch Map:




                     Sketch map of the Saint Mary's College High School campus. Cronin Hall is
                                        indicated by the number 1 on the map.




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                      *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                                Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                        HRI # ________________________________________
  PRIMARY RECORD                                                                            Trinomial _____________________________________
                                                                            NRHP Status Code            6Z
                                            Other Listings _______________________________________________________________
                                            Review Code __________ Reviewer ____________________________ Date ___________


Page 1 of    10                                               *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)            Vellesian Hall

P1. Other Identifier:
*P2. Location:      Not for Publication  Unrestricted                                 *a. County      Alameda
and (P2b and P2c or P2d. Attach a Location Map as necessary.)
*b. USGS 7.5' Quad  Richmond Date 1995 T ; R ; Sec                         ; MD B.M.
c. Address   1294 Albina Avenue City   Berkeley                            Zip 94706
d. UTM: (give more than one for large and/or linear resources)     Zone __; ________mE/ ______mN
e. Other Locational Data: (e.g., parcel #, directions to resource, elevation, etc., as appropriate)
Assessor Parcel Number: 65-2428-1
*P3a. Description: (Describe resource and its major elements. Include design, materials, condition, alterations, size, setting, and boundaries)
Vellesian Hall (Photograph 1) is located in the southeast section of the campus of St. Mary's College High School in the
City of Albany in Alameda County. The school campus is also partially in Berkeley, and the school uses a Berkeley street
address. The one-story building is rectangular with an east-west alignment. The low-pitch roof is hipped on the west end
with a gable on the east end. The roof is covered by rolled composite roofing and has a moderate overhang with closed
eaves, metal gutters, and downspouts. The sides of the building are clad in stucco. The north side of the building has a
recessed entryway containing a single wood door with a small security window and a wood frame. A similar door is located
on the east end of the building. (Photograph 3) A slightly recessed single wood door is located on the south side. A roll-up
aluminum door is located on the west end of the building. The windows in the building are aluminum sliders with wood
frames and sills. Concrete steps and ramps provide access to all entrances.

*P3b. Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes) HP15          (Educational Building) ; HP16 (Religious Building)
*P4. Resources Present:  Building         Structure    Object          Site      District     Element of District  Other (Isolates, etc.)
                                                                                                             P5b. Description of Photo: (View, date,
                                                                                                                      Photograph 1, Vellesian
                                                                                                             accession #)
                                                                                                             Hall, camera facing southeast,
                                                                                                             December 21, 2007.
                                                                                                             *P6. Date Constructed/Age and Sources:
                                                                                                              Historic   Prehistoric Both
                                                                                                             1946; Conditions Survey (1993), Saint
                                                                                                             Mary's College High School
                                                                                                             *P7. Owner and Address:
                                                                                                             Saint Mary's College High School of
                                                                                                             Berkeley, Inc.
                                                                                                             1294 Albina Avenue
                                                                                                             Berkeley, CA 94706
                                                                                                             *P8. Recorded by: (Name, affiliation, address)
                                                                                                             Mark A. Beason
                                                                                                             JRP Historical Consulting, LLC
                                                                                                             1490 Drew Ave, Suite 110
                                                                                                             Davis, CA 95618
                                                                                                             *P9. Date Recorded: December 21, 2007
                                                                                                             *P10. Survey Type: (Describe) Intensive
*P11.  Report Citation: (Cite survey report and other sources, or enter "none.") JRP Historical Consulting, LLC, "Historic Resources
Inventory and Evaluation Report for St. Joseph's Hall, Cronin Hall, and Vellesian Hall at Saint Mary's College High School," prepared
for Lamphier-Gregory, 2008.
*Attachments:     NONE  Location Map       Sketch Map  Continuation Sheet  Building, Structure, and Object Record Archaeological Record
   District Record     Linear Feature Record      Milling Station Record      Rock Art Record         Artifact Record       Photograph Record
  Other (list) __________________
DPR 523A (1/95)                                                                                                                   *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                                        Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                                HRI # ________________________________________
  BUILDING, STRUCTURE, AND OBJECT RECORD

Page 2 of    10                                                                                         *NRHP Status Code            6Z
                                                             *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
B1. Historic Name:Vellesian Hall
B2. Common Name: Vellesian Hall
B3. Original Use: Residence for campus workers                 B4. Present Use:   Offices and Maintenance Shop
*B5. Architectural Style: N/A
*B6. Construction History: (Construction date, alteration, and date of alterations) 1946;      renovated 1985
*B7. Moved?  No         Yes      Unknown Date:                      Original Location:
*B8. Related Features:   n/a
B9. Architect:   Vincent Buckley            b. Builder:   unknown
*B10. Significance: Theme               n/a          Area              n/a
   Period of Significance                n/a           Property Type                n/a          Applicable Criteria      n/a
(Discuss importance in terms of historical or architectural context as defined by theme, period, and geographic scope. Also address integrity.)


Vellesian Hall on the Saint Mary's College High School at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in accordance
with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA Guidelines outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California Public
Resources Code. The building lacks significance and therefore does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in
the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR) and
therefore does not appear to be a historical resource for the purposes of CEQA. (See Continuation Sheet.)




B11. Additional Resource Attributes: (List attributes and codes)

                                                                                                 (Sketch Map with north arrow required.)
*B12.    References: McLaren, Kann and Associates, "St.
Mary's College High School, Grand Summary of Value,"
1973; Bruce E. Kann & Associates, Inc., "St. Mary's
College High School, Grand Summary of Value," 1978; "A
Short History of Saint Mary's College High School
Campus", ca. 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions
Survey, Saint Mary's College High School," February
1993; see footnotes.                                                                                 See Continuation Sheet.
B13. Remarks:




*B14. Evaluator: Mark     A. Beason
                     and Christopher McMorris
*Date of Evaluation:    January 2008
            (This space reserved for official comments)




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                                           *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 3 of 10                                     *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update


B10. Significance

Historical Overview

Saint Mary's College High School is located in the southeast corner of the City of Albany at 1294 Albina Avenue. The
campus slightly straddles the line between Albany and the City of Berkeley which runs along Codornices Creek; however,
St. Joseph's Hall is located on the Albany side of the boundary. The De La Salle Christian Brothers first occupied the site in
1903 and still operate SMCHS. All of the buildings that currently comprise the school were constructed after World War II.
The following discussion describes the history of Saint Mary's College High School from its 1863 founding in San
Francisco to its history at the current location. Please reference the sketch map in Figure 2 for the current locations of the
buildings on the campus.

Alameda County and Albany History

The City of Albany in Alameda County occupies the northern portion of what was once an expansive land grant called
Rancho San Antonio. The grant encompassed what is now Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville, Piedmont, and a portion of San
Leandro, and reached from the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay to crest of the Contra Costa hills. The last Spanish
Governor of California, Pablo Vicente de Sola, awarded a land grant of 43,000 acres to distinguished Spanish soldier Don
Luis Maria Peralta in 1820. Don Luis never lived on the rancho and in 1842, two decades after Mexico won its
independence from Spain, he divided the land equally between his four sons. Don Luis gave his son Domingo Peralta the
northern end of the grant, which now encompasses Albany and Berkeley. In 1849, Peralta's pastoral rancho lifestyle
changed dramatically with the Gold Rush.1

Settlers arriving with the Gold Rush quickly realized the value of Domingo Peralta's land and, by the time California
achieved statehood in 1850, many of those who did not gravitate to the gold mines purchased or illegally squatted on the
majority of what was formerly Peralta land. In 1853, California Governor Bigler authorized the creation of Alameda
County. The new county consisted of 760 square miles of land and 80 square miles of water.2

Early industrial development in the area began during the 1860s. The Civil War and the transcontinental railroad claimed
most of the gunpowder produced in the east. However, enterprising businessmen in Albany began producing gunpowder to
supplement the nation's supply, which became one of the principal industries in this portion of the East Bay that led to its
further development. In 1879, the Giant Gunpowder Company (which later became the Judson and Sheppard Chemical
Works) built a plant at Fleming Point on the current site of Golden Gate Fields racetrack. The plant closed in 1892 after
several deadly explosions. The Judson Dynamite and Powder Company followed with an explosives plant on the west slope
of Albany hill in 1898. It too suffered a series of deadly explosions and closed in 1905, ending the presence of the
explosives industry in Albany. The West Coast Kalsomine Company opened a shop on the west slope of Cerrito Hill that
produced the paints used on the 1915 Panama Pacific Exposition buildings in San Francisco.3


1
  Mildred Brooke Hoover, Hero Eugene Rensch, and Ethel Grace Rensch, Historic Spots in California, (Stanford: Stanford University
Press, 1966), 9-10; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany, California, ([Albany?]:
Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, 1947), 3; The site of the First Berkeley Adobe has been designated a Point of
Historical Interest in Alameda County; California Office of Historic Preservation, Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data
File for Alameda County, December 4, 2007, 40; Albany Police and Fire Employees Civil Service Club, The Story of the City of Albany,
5; Catherine J. Webb, Stories of Albany, (Albany, CA: Albany Historical Society, 1983), 11.
2
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
3
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 9; Webb, Stories of Albany, 14; Warren F. Lee and Catherine T. Lee, A Selective
History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs, (Albuquerque: Belvidere Delaware Railroad Company
Enterprises, 2000), 79-80.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                            *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                             Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                     HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                 Trinomial            ____________________________________________


Page 4 of 10                                     *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)          Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007              Continuation       Update

An important contributing factor to the settlement of what became Albany was the development of the University of
California in Berkeley. In 1868, the state of California designated the College of California, situated on the northwestern
portion of the former Rancho San Antonio, as the University of California. As the university grew, the surrounding area
provided housing, stores, and restaurants for the influx of students and professors.4

Settlement and development in the East Bay received another boost as refugees fled San Francisco following the 1906
earthquake and fires. Real estate companies in northern Alameda County promoted the undeveloped area in the East Bay as
a safer alternative to San Francisco. The population grew drastically in established cities like Berkeley following the
earthquake. Berkeley's population increased from approximately 13,000 to 40,000 between 1900 and 1910. During this
period, a conflict between the citizens of Berkeley and their neighbors led to the incorporation of the City of Albany. For
many years, Berkeley dumped its garbage in the area around San Pablo Avenue in an area called Ocean View. Citizens in
that area united to halt the dumping and to incorporate the town of Ocean View in 1908. Voters changed the name of the
new town to Albany in 1909. In 1927, Albany adopted its first official charter and the town formed its own school district in
1929.5 Albany's population expanded from 911 in 1910 to over 14,000 in 1945 largely because of employment
opportunities provided by war-related industries. The federal government subsidized housing projects in the Albany area for
the families of military personnel stationed in the Bay Area and employees of the Richmond shipyards.6

History of Saint Mary's College High School

Saint Mary's College High School began as part of Saint Mary's College in San Francisco. Archbishop Joseph Sadoc
Alemany established the college in the 1860s to bolster Catholic education in the area. He lobbied for the De La Salle
Christian Brothers, a respected teaching order, to come to California and administer the school, but the organization decided
its American resources were too thin and could not be spared. In 1867, Alemany traveled to Rome and appealed to the Pope,
who granted his support to the plan. The following year, a group of Christian Brothers made the journey to the West Coast
and took control of Saint Mary's College.7

History of the Christian Brothers, San Francisco District

In San Francisco, the Christian Brothers took over a school with both day and boarding students ranging from primary to
university levels, which was a common arrangement at the time. The school succeeded in tripling the number of students in
a single year and increased its relationship with "feeder schools" in the area, including Saint Joseph's Academy in Oakland,
a grammar school founded in 1870. The San Francisco District of Christian Brothers also established or operated schools in
other parts of California (Sacramento, Oakland, Santa Barbara, San Rafael, and Santa Cruz) as well as Oregon and
Washington. These developments enabled Saint Mary's College to purchase land in Oakland, where they constructed a
large brick building to house the college and high school. The Christian Brothers moved St. Mary's College and High
School to the new brick building in Oakland in 1889. Fires nearly destroyed the Oakland facility in 1894 and 1918, but the
school rebuilt and continued in Oakland until 1927, when the high school and college split and relocated to Peralta Park and
Moraga, respectively.8

4
  Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 7.
5
  Webb, Stories of Albany. 27, 81; Daniella Thompson, "East Bay Then and Now: Charles Manning MacGregor, Indefatigable Builder,"
The Berkeley Daily Planet, December 15, 2006.
6
  Webb, Stories of Albany, 71; Lee and Lee, A Selective History of the Codornices-University Village, the City of Albany and Environs,
157-164; Albany Police...The Story of the City of Albany, 62.
7
  Andrea Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary: An Account of People and
Events," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA, 1-3; Ronald Eugene Isetti, Called to the Pacific: A History of
the Christian Brothers of the San Francisco District, 1868-1944, (Moraga, CA: St. Mary's College of California, 1979), 2-6.
8
  Martin, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco, 1868-2003, 135th Anniversary," 8-19; Isetti, Called to the Pacific,
43-48, 86-104.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                              *Required Information
    State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
    DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
    CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 5 of 10                                     *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason           *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update

Peralta Park and the Christian Brothers

As mentioned above, squatters became a problem on Jose Domingo Peralta's property in Alameda County after the Gold
Rush. Peralta sold much of his holdings by 1853, and his heirs split the remaining land after his death in 1865. Portions of
the property changed owners multiple times before the 1880s, including 60 acres around Codornices Creek that later became
Peralta Park and the home of SMCHS. In 1887, Maurice B. Curtis purchased these 60 acres with plans to sell lots for a
residential subdivision. Curtis, a very popular actor, also constructed a grand hotel to serve as a retirement home for his
colleagues in the theater. The Peralta Park Hotel was completed and opened in 1891. The 60-room hotel was an extravagant
and large building with multiple spires and towers. The subdivision that surrounded the hotel became a desirable
neighborhood, and several large homes were constructed on the tree-lined lots. Despite the success of the subdivision, the
hotel quickly outdistanced its owner's finances, and Curtis sold the property to cover his debts. The hotel became Peralta
Hall and served as a boarding school, nightclub, and candy factory before the Christian Brothers purchased the property and
building in 1903.9

Saint Mary's College High School in Peralta Park

The Christian Brothers moved St. Joseph's Academy from Oakland to Peralta Hall in Peralta Park in 1903, when the area
was all still part of Berkeley. The large hotel building, now called Peralta Hall, offered much better facilities than the poor
conditions of their building in Oakland. Deteriorating facilities at the college and high school building in Oakland also
motivated the Brothers to consider relocating those students. As mentioned above, the college moved to new facilities in
Moraga in 1927. At the same time, the Christian Brothers commissioned a new three-story building at Peralta Park, De La
Salle Hall, to provide classrooms for the high school, and instruction began at the new location in 1927. Peralta Hall
continued to house St. Joseph's Academy and served as a dormitory for boarding students and brothers.10

By the 1940s, the deteriorating condition of Peralta Hall prompted plans for new campus buildings. In 1946, those plans
became more pressing after a fire swept through the upper portion of the old hotel. After the fire, the top two stories were
determined structurally unsound and were removed for the safety of the students, but the lower floors remained in service as
the school library and dormitory. In the same year as the fire, Vellesian Hall, designed by San Francisco architect Vincent
Buckley, was constructed along Codornices Creek on the southeast end of campus to serve as housing for campus workers.11

New construction on the Peralta Park campus continued through the 1940s and 1950s as demand for updated facilities grew.
New buildings included a new gymnasium in 1948, Cronin Hall in 1952, and St. Joseph's Hall in 1956.12 In 1959, seismic
inadequacies forced the school to demolish the remaining portion of Peralta Hall.13 The oblique aerial photo below
(Photograph 2) shows the campus around 1959, following the demolition of Peralta Hall. The "L" shaped De La Salle Hall
was prominently situated, at this time, on the east side of campus south of the sports field and north of Vellesian Hall.

9
   Writers' Program (California), Berkeley: The First Seventy-Five Years, (Berkeley, CA: Gillick Press, 1941), 95-96; Daniella
Thompson, "Maurice Curtis lent Berkeley brief splendor," Berkeley Daily Planet, June 9, 2006.
10
   Isetti, Called to the Pacific, 213-216, 258-260.
11
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003, available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa,
CA; Miller, "Brothers of the Christian Schools, District of San Francisco...," 19-20; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint
Mary's College High School," 7-9, available at Saint Mary's College High School. Although some sources suggest that Vellesian Hall
was not built until 1959, this report relies upon the 1946 date as reported by Marquis Associates.
12
   Along with his designs for SMCHS, Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno,
and Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Oakland, all in the 1950s. Research did not produce further information about Houweling. "Parish
Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune, August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Buckley are described on the following
webpages accessed on January 18, 2008: http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html;
http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html
13
   "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-12, 25-27.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                            *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 6 of 10                                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update




                           Photograph 2: Aerial photograph of the campus from 1959. Photo courtesy of De La
                                              Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.

After 1960 and over the next several decades, changes continued at the SMCHS campus. With its limited space on its
Peralta Park property, the school remodeled several buildings, built additions, altered the landscape features, used and then
replaced temporary buildings, and built new buildings in much of the remaining open space on campus. The school
concentrated most of its development on the west side of campus, even after De La Salle Hall was demolished. In 1969, the
grammar boarding school, St. Joseph's Academy, relocated to the Christian Brothers' district headquarters at Mont La Salle
in Napa, leaving the entire Peralta Park campus to the high school. In order to accommodate the school's anticipated needs
over the next decades, the Christian Brothers commissioned and instituted a master plan in the early 1970s. De La Salle Hall
was demolished in 1973 because of seismic deficiencies, so much of the master plan was devoted to making up for the lost
space. After housing campus workers, the west end of Vellesian Hall became a maintenance shop, while the rest of the
building became office space in 1985. In the last twenty years, changes have continued at SMCHS. The school became co-
educational in 1995 and changed to an all day-student population. The campus has continued to evolve with alterations to
buildings and the replacement of temporary classrooms with permanent classroom buildings in 1986 and 2002. The current
master plan for the campus recommends further measures intended to meet the evolving needs of Saint Mary's College High
School, including the removal of Vellesian Hall to make space for new construction on the southeast end of campus.14

The various periods of construction and development led to a variety of architectural expressions on campus, with little
apparent architectural continuity over time. The architecture of the older buildings on campus ranges from the utilitarian
design of Vellesian Hall to the Moderne style of the older portion of the gymnasium and mid-twentieth century
Contemporary style of St. Joseph's Hall.




14
  "A Short History of Saint Mary's College High School Campus," 2003; Marquis Associates, "1993 Conditions Survey, Saint Mary's
College High School,"10-31; "80 Years at Peralta Park," available at the De La Salle Institute, District Archives, Napa, CA.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                             *Required Information
     State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
     DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
     CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 7 of 10                                      *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason            *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update

Discussion of Potential Significance

Vellesian Hall does not appear to meet the criteria for listing in the NRHP or CRHR.15

Under Criteria A (1), Vellesian Hall does not appear to be significant because it lacks important associations with events that
have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local and regional history. SMCHS is associated with the
development of Christian Brothers Catholic education in California, which began in the 1860s. SMCHS was one of many
California schools administered by the Christian Brothers and includes buildings from a period after the Catholic education
system was well established in the San Francisco Bay Area. Although the Peralta Park campus has association with
Christian Brothers education as early as 1903, Vellesian Hall dates to 1946 and illustrates the incremental improvements that
were made to the campus as its older facilities deteriorated. While Vellesian Hall contributed to the development of
SMCHS, it cannot be associated with the important early education efforts of the Christian Brothers in the San Francisco
Bay Area. Furthermore, the building is not individually importantly associated with trends or events that are significant to
local, regional, state, or national history.

Under Criteria B (2), Vellesian Hall does not appear to be significant for its association with the lives of persons important
to local, California, or national history.

Under Criteria C (3), Vellesian Hall does not appear to be significant as an important example of a type, period, or method
of construction; nor does it appear to be the work of a master artist or craftsman or possess high artistic values. As discussed
above, Vellesian Hall has a utilitarian design that does not illustrate important aspects of architectural design from the 1940s.
The building is also not the work of a master. San Francisco architect Vincent Buckley designed the building. Early in his
career, Buckley was a draftsman with John J. Foley who did work for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese, including Star of the
Sea Church (1928) and Grammar School (1931) in Richmond. In the 1920s, Buckley was in the firm Griewank & Buckley,
construction engineers, and he worked with architect H.A. Minton who also did work for the Archdiocese. In the 1950s,
Buckley designed St. Ambrose Catholic Church in Berkeley, the Shrine of St. Therese in Fresno, and Our Lady of Lourdes
Church in Oakland. In spite of these commissions, the historic record does not provide evidence of Vincent Buckley's
significance as an architect.16

Vellesian Hall does not appear to be significant under Criteria D (4) because this criterion is usually used to evaluate historic
sites and archaeological resources. Although buildings and structures can occasionally be recognized for the important
information they might yield regarding historic construction or technologies, Vellesian Hall is a building type that is well
documented and is not a principal source of important information in this regard.

Vellesian Hall lost some of its original historic integrity following the 1985 renovation that converted the west end of the
building into a maintenance shop, added a roll up garage door, and modified the roof. Even if it had more historic integrity,
the building lacks historic significance.

Furthermore, if this building was eligible for listing in the NRHP, its significance would need to meet the NRHP Criteria
Consideration A for Religious Properties because it was constructed by and is presently owned by a religious institution, the
Christian Brothers. Vellesian Hall does not meet the standards established by Criteria Consideration A because it does not
possess architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance.

15
   U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation, (Washington
D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1997).
16
   William Buetner, San Francisco Architectural Heritage, personal communications with Christopher McMorris, JRP, January 28, 2008;
San Francisco Architectural Heritage, Inner Richmond Neighborhood Survey; "Parish Will Build Church Near Lake," Oakland Tribune,
August 27, 1959; other buildings designed by Vincent Buckley are described on the following webpages accessed on January 18, 2008:
http://www.shrineofsttherese.com/about.html; http://stambrose-berkeley.org/history.html; http://lourdesoakland.com/html/history.html.
DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                             *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 8 of 10                                   *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update

Vellesian Hall at 1294 Albina Avenue has been evaluated in accordance with Section 15064.5(a)(2)-(3) of the CEQA
Guidelines using the criteria outlined in Section 5024.1 of the California Public Resources Code. It does not appear to meet
the criteria for listing in the NRHP and CRHR.


Photographs (continued):




                                 Photograph 3. Vellesian Hall, camera facing northwest.




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                          *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 9 of 10                                   *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update


Location Map:




                  Base Map: US Geologic Survey. Richmond, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1995,
                             and Oakland West, 7.5 Minute Topographical Series, 1993.


DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                          *Required Information
  State of California ­ The Resources Agency                            Primary # _____________________________________
  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION                                    HRI # ________________________________________
  CONTINUATION SHEET                                                Trinomial           ____________________________________________


Page 10 of  10                                 *Resource Name or # (Assigned by recorder)        Vellesian Hall
*Recorded by Mark A. Beason         *Date   December 21, 2007            Continuation       Update


Sketch Map:




                    Sketch map of the Saint Mary's College High School campus. Vellesian Hall is
                                        indicated by the number 3 on the map.




DPR 523B (1/95)                                                                                          *Required Information
DMJM Harris, an AECOM Company
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 700, Oakland, CA 94612
T 510.763.2929 F 510.834.5220 www.dmjmharris.com




                                                   T
Memorandum


Date:               May 19, 2008
To:                 John Courtney
From:
Subject:




Introduction
                  AFAnthony Mangonon, Fred Kelley
                    Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master
                    Plan




This memorandum addresses the transportation impacts as a result of implementation of the proposed
Master Plan for the 12.5-acre Saint Mary's College High School campus located within the City of Albany
and adjacent to the City of Berkeley. The proposed Master Plan includes the following projects:
        Renovation of the existing athletic field, including the replacement of the existing surface,
        improvements to storm drainage and perimeter landscaping, replacement of the bleachers, and
        construction of a new 1,500 sq. ft. maintenance/storage building;
        Renovation of Cronin Hall classrooms (no net change in floor space);
        Demolition of the existing band pavilion and snack bar (-2,380 sq. ft.) and construction of a new
        band room (2,000 sq. ft.), a new choral and lecture hall (2,000 sq. ft.), a new music history/theory
DR
        classroom (1,000 sq. ft.), a new dance/practice classroom (1,000 sq. ft.), and new offices (500 sq.
        ft.);
        Construction of a new weight room (4,000 sq. ft.) and snack bar (1,000 sq. ft.) and conversion of
        the existing weight room to athletic offices;
        Renovation and expansion of the Student Center, including expansion of the kitchen (additional
        1,300 sq. ft.);
        Construction of a new chapel with a seating capacity of 200 persons (4,000 sq. ft.);
        Renovation and expansion of Saint Joseph's Hall, involving interior demolition of the existing
        space into administrative offices (12,000 sq. ft.), reception area (2,500 sq. ft.), library (9,000 sq.
        ft.), and support space (5,000 sq. ft.);
        Construction of a new multi-use facility consisting of a multi-use room (gymnasium, auditorium,
        banquet facility, and assembly space for 750 seats), storage (12,500 sq. ft.), and maintenance
        shop (2,000 sq. ft.);
        Demolition of Vellesian Hall (-3,900 sq. ft.); and,
        Construction of a new classroom building consisting of classroom and gallery space (11,800 sq.
        ft.).
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 2


Neighborhood Concerns
Saint Mary's College High School is located in the middle of a mostly residential neighborhood straddling
the border between the City of Berkeley and the City of Albany. Historically, neighbors of the school have
cited the following traffic-related concerns with the school:




                                                  T
        speeding and high traffic volumes on Albina Avenue;
        speeding on Posen Avenue;
        use of on-street parking in non-designated areas by school-related vehicles; and,
        use of Hopkins Court by school-related traffic.

Previous Studies



                  AF
Studies conducted by Korve Engineering in both 2003 and 2005 evaluated then-existing traffic conditions
in the vicinity of the campus and addressed neighborhood concerns. The most recent study in 2005 also
evaluated the effectiveness of the following improvement measures implemented after the 2003 study:
        a new drop-off zone along Posen Avenue;
        monitoring of school traffic at the intersection of Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court by school staff;
        installation of bicycle racks on campus; and,
        the reopening of the Monterey Avenue access as a drop-off zone with pedestrian access.

The 2005 study conducted speed surveys, 24-hour traffic counts, and on-street parking occupancy
surveys and made the following conclusions:
        The 50th and 85th percentile speeds during school peak periods are generally at or below the
        50th and 85th percentile daily speeds along Albina Avenue and Posen Avenue;
        On-street parking occupancy rates are below 85% occupancy for all streets immediately
DR
        surrounding the project, with most streets having well below 85% occupancy; and,
        One percent of school-related traffic uses Hopkins Court.

The 2005 study also proposed the following improvement measures:
        Implement angled parking on the south side of Posen Avenue fronting the school property east of
        the driveway, which would reduce lane width and discourage speeding;
        Continue traffic enforcement by school staff along Albina Avenue and Posen Avenue; and,
        Encourage use of non-vehicular transportation, including BART, bus, and walking.

Existing Conditions
Access to and from campus is provided at three points:
        Albina Avenue (pedestrian and vehicular);
        Monterey Avenue (pedestrian only, with drop-off zone); and,
        Posen Avenue (pedestrian only, with drop-off zone).

The drop-off zone at Posen Avenue is the most heavily used access point, followed by the Albina Avenue
access. The drop-off zone along Monterey Avenue is the least used of all the access points.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 3


There are 119 parking spaces provided on-campus for students, faculty, and staff, with an additional 44
student parking spaces provided along the south side of Posen Avenue.

Field observations of normal school day traffic conditions in the area were conducted before school




                                                  T
begins and after school lets out. Traffic was observed to flow smoothly considering the constraints of
Hopkins Street, a two-lane residential roadway which carries significant traffic during the peak periods,
including heavy vehicles such as trucks and buses. Some queuing was observed during the before
school peak period (7:00 AM to 9:00 AM) from northbound school-related vehicles on Hopkins Street
attempting to access Albina Avenue. However, the queues dissipated fairly quickly as there were
sufficient gaps in southbound traffic to accommodate these turning movements.

Intersection Level of Service




    1.
    2.
    3.
    4.
    5.
    6.
                  AF
Intersection turning movement counts were conducted for the before school (7:00 AM to 9:00 AM) and
after school (1:00 PM to 3:00 PM) periods on one non-school and one school weekday between Tuesday
and Thursday. The following study intersections in the vicinity of the school were selected for analysis:
         Hopkins Street / Gilman Street (all-way stop-controlled);
         Hopkins Street / Albina Avenue (one-way stop-controlled);
         Hopkins Street / Sacramento Street (signalized);
         Hopkins Street / Hopkins Court (one-way stop-controlled);
         Hopkins Street / Monterey Avenue (all-way stop-controlled); and,
         Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court (one-way stop-controlled).

The location of these intersections in relation to the school is illustrated in Figure 1. Turning movement
counts are included in the Appendix A.

An intersection level-of-service (LOS) analysis for the study intersections was conducted for the before
school and after school peak hours based on the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology.
DR
Existing level-of-service is summarized in Table 1. LOS calculation worksheets are included in Appendix
D.

It should be noted that some intersections appear to operate worse without the school than with the
school. This is primarily due to the variability of daily traffic conditions, which can vary up to ten percent
from one day to another. As shown in Table 1, the effect of school-generated traffic is most noticeable at
intersections closest to the school such as Hopkins Street / Albina Avenue, Hopkins Street / Hopkins
Court, and Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court. However, the effect of school traffic on the level-of-service at
the six study intersections is generally negligible, and all study intersections operate at LOS C or better.
The City of Berkeley has a general intersection standard of LOS D or better.
                                          T
          AF              G
                                           H




                                      School Campus


                                               C
DR
                                                        D
                                               3                       F
                                                                 6
                                                            5
                                       B
                                                   4

                                                    E
                                      2
                                  A
                              1




                                                                           Source: Google Maps, 2008.



                                                   SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL MASTER PLAN
3   Study Intersection
                                                                                        Figure 1
E   Tube Count Location                                         ANALYSIS LOCATIONS
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 5


Table 1: Intersection Level of Service
                                                             Existing Conditions             Existing Conditions
                                                                                                                         Change
#    Intersection                                              Without School                    With School
                                                                                                                         in Delay
                                                                LOS            Delay            LOS            Delay




                                                             T
Before School
1    Hopkins Street / Gilman Street                               C             15.4              B             14.3       -1.1
2    Hopkins Street / Albina Avenue                               B             12.3              C             18.2       +5.9
3    Hopkins Street / Sacramento Street                           C             21.6              C             21.2       -0.4
4    Hopkins Street / Hopkins Court                               B             14.2              B             14.5       +0.3
5
6

After School
1
2
3
4
5
6
                      AF
     Hopkins Street / Monterey Avenue
     Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court



     Hopkins Street / Gilman Street
     Hopkins Street / Albina Avenue
     Hopkins Street / Sacramento Street
     Hopkins Street / Hopkins Court
     Hopkins Street / Monterey Avenue
     Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court
                                                                  B
                                                                  A



                                                                  C
                                                                  B
                                                                  C
                                                                  B
                                                                  B
                                                                  A
                                                                                13.3
                                                                                 8.6



                                                                                17.9
                                                                                14.3
                                                                                21.1
                                                                                12.2
                                                                                12.5
                                                                                 8.6
                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                  A



                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                13.8
                                                                                                                 9.7



                                                                                                                15.3
                                                                                                                15.9
                                                                                                                19.8
                                                                                                                12.4
                                                                                                                11.1
                                                                                                                 8.9
                                                                                                                           +0.5
                                                                                                                           +1.1



                                                                                                                           -2.6
                                                                                                                           +1.6
                                                                                                                           -1.3
                                                                                                                           +0.2
                                                                                                                           -1.4
                                                                                                                           +0.3
Source: DMJM Harris, 2008.
Notes:
Delay in seconds per vehicle.
For signalized intersections (Intersection 3), delay is the average delay for all vehicles in the intersection.
For unsignalized intersections (Intersections 1, 2, 4, 5, 6), delay is the average delay for the worst minor approach.
DR
Roadway Traffic Volumes
Twenty-four-hour pneumatic hose counts were collected at eight locations in the vicinity of the school:
     A.   Hopkins Street between Gilman Street and Albina Avenue;
     B.   Albina Avenue between Hopkins Street and Hopkins Court;
     C.   Albina Avenue north of Hopkins Court;
     D.   Hopkins Court between Hopkins Street and Albina Avenue;
     E.   Sacramento Street between Hopkins Street and Ada Street;
     F.   Hopkins Street between Monterey Avenue and McGee Avenue;
     G.   Posen Avenue between Ordway Street and Ventura Avenue; and,
     H.   Posen Avenue between Ventura Avenue and West Place.

The eight hose count locations are illustrated in Figure 1. The hose count data is included in Appendix
B.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 6


The hose count data illustrates both the variability of traffic throughout the day as well as the difference in
traffic volumes with and without the school. Chart 1 through Chart 3 illustrate twenty-four-hour count
data for the following locations which provide direct access to the school campus:
    B. Albina Avenue between Hopkins Street and Hopkins Court;




                                                  T
    D. Hopkins Court between Hopkins Street and Albina Avenue; and,
    G. Posen Avenue between Ordway Street and Ventura Avenue.

As shown in Chart 1 through Chart 3, traffic on school days peaks during the before school (7:00 AM to
9:00 AM) and after school (2:00 PM to 4:00 PM) periods. There is also some peaking around the
lunchtime (12:00 PM to 1:00 PM) and evening (5:00 PM to 6:00 PM) periods. The former is likely
associated with faculty, students, and staff going outside of campus for lunch; the latter is likely




                  AF
associated with extracurricular events which keep students on campus after school and residents
returning home from work and other activities. The highest volume occurs during the before school
period, but does not exceed 100 vehicles.

Vehicles Using Hopkins Court
As shown in Chart 2, traffic volumes on Hopkins Court are higher with school than without school. This
indicates that school-related traffic is likely using Hopkins Court to access the Albina Avenue entrance to
campus. Volumes in the northbound direction are noticeably higher than the southbound direction,
indicating that most traffic on Hopkins Court is traveling primarily northbound. Based on the location of
Hopkins Court in relation to access roadways, these school-related vehicles are likely coming from east
Berkeley and traveling down westbound Hopkins Street. Traffic in the northbound direction peaks during
the lunchtime and after school periods, which would indicate that this increase in traffic is likely a direct
result of the school.

Observations during the before school peak period indicated that the number of vehicles using Hopkins
Court appears to have increased since the 2005 study. On the day of observation, there were no school
staff present at the intersection of Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court.
DR
                                       Number of Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                             Number of Vehicles
       12                                                                                                                                                                                             12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                    0
                        10
                             20
                                  30
                                       40
                                              50
                                                     60
                                                            70
                                                                 80
                                                                      90
                                                                                            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100


               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                           1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                           2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                           3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                           4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                           5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                           6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                           7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                           8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                              A
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                           9: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
       10 AM                                                                                                                                                                                          10 AM
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                              0
       11 AM                                                                                                                                                                                          11 AM
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
             0                                                                                                                                                                                              0
               AM                                                                                                                                                                                             AM
       12                                                                                                                                                                                             12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                              0
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                    DR
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                           1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00




Time
                                                                                                                                                                                               Time
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                           2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                           3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                           4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                           5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                           6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                           7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                           8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                              P
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                           9: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                             00
                                                                      AF
       10 PM                                                                                                                                                                                          10 PM
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                              0
               PM                                                                                                                                                                                             PM
       11                                                                                                                                                                                             11
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                             :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                              0
               PM                                                                                                                                                                                             PM
                                                                           With School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          With School




                                                                           Without School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Without School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Chart 1a: Location B (Albina Avenue between Hopkins Street and Hopkins Court) ­ Northbound




                                                                                                  Chart 1b: Location B (Albina Avenue between Hopkins Street and Hopkins Court) ­ Southbound
                                   Number of Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                        Number of Vehicles
       12                                                                                                                                                                                        12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                   0
                       2
                           4
                               6
                                   8
                                          10
                                                 12
                                                        14
                                                             16
                                                                  18
                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20


              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                      1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                      2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                      3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                      4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                      5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                      6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                      7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                      8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              A                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                      9: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              AM                                                                                                                                                                                        AM
       10                                                                                                                                                                                        10
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0
       11 AM                                                                                                                                                                                     11 AM
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0
              AM                                                                                                                                                                                        AM
       12                                                                                                                                                                                        12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                   DR
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                      1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00




Time
                                                                                                                                                                                          Time
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                      2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                      3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                      4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                      5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                      6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                      7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                      8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              P                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                      9: M
                                                                  AF
           00                                                                                                                                                                                        00
              PM                                                                                                                                                                                        PM
       10                                                                                                                                                                                        10
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0
       11 PM                                                                                                                                                                                     11 PM
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                         0
              PM                                                                                                                                                                                        PM
                                                                       With School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 With School




                                                                       Without School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Without School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chart 2a: Location D (Hopkins Court between Albina Avenue and Hopkins Street) ­ Northbound




                                                                                             Chart 2b: Location D (Hopkins Court between Albina Avenue and Hopkins Street) ­ Southbound
                                       Number of Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                        Number of Vehicles
       12                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                                         :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100




                    0
                        10
                             20
                                  30
                                       40
                                              50
                                                     60
                                                            70
                                                                 80
                                                                      90
                                                                                                          100
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               A                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       9: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AM
       10 A M                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
             0                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
       11 AM                                                                                                                                                                                                      11 AM
          :0                                                                                                                                                                                                        :0
             0                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
               AM                                                                                                                                                                                                 12 AM
       12
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                                          :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                    DR
        1: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       1: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Time




Time
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        2: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       2: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        3: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       3: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        4: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       4: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        5: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       5: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        6: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       6: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        7: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       7: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        8: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       8: M
           00                                                                                                                                                                                                         00
               P                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
        9: M                                                                                                                                                                                                       9: M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00
                                                                      AF
           00
               PM                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 PM
       10
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                                          :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PM
       11 PM                                                                                                                                                                                                      11
         :0                                                                                                                                                                                                         :0
            0                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
               PM                                                                                                                                                                                                        PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     With School




                                                                           With School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Without School




                                                                                         Without School



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chart 3a: Location G (Posen Avenue between Ordway Street and Ventura Avenue) ­ Eastbound




                                                                                                                Chart 3b: Location G (Posen Avenue between Ordway Street and Ventura Avenue) ­ Westbound
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 10


On-Street Parking
On-street parking surveys were conducted during the school midday (1:00 PM to 3:00 PM) and weekday
evening (5:00 PM to 7:00 PM) periods. The results for selected key roadways in the vicinity of the
campus are summarized in Table 2.




                                                            T
Table 2: On-Street Parking Occupancy
                                                                                       Occupancy
 Segments                                                   Street Side
                                                                              Midday           Evening
 Ordway Street between                                           West          71%                 79%
 Sonoma Street and Posen Avenue
                                                                 East          54%                 77%
 Ordway Street between
 Posen Avenue and Gilman Street

 Ventura Avenue between
 Sonoma Street and Posen Avenue

 Posen Avenue between
 Ordway Avenue and Ventura Avenue

 Posen Avenue between
                     AF
 Ventura Avenue and Monterey Avenue

 Monterey Avenue between
 Posen Avenue and Hopkins Street
                                                                 West
                                                                 East
                                                                 West
                                                                 East
                                                                 North
                                                                South
                                                                 North
                                                                South
                                                                 West
                                                                 East
                                                                        (1)



                                                                        (2)
                                                                               52%
                                                                               43%
                                                                               56%
                                                                               55%
                                                                               36%
                                                                               67%
                                                                               33%
                                                                               100%
                                                                               73%
                                                                               64%
                                                                                                   57%
                                                                                                   45%
                                                                                                   53%
                                                                                                   58%
                                                                                                   27%
                                                                                                   33%
                                                                                                   38%
                                                                                                   34%
                                                                                                   51%
                                                                                                   60%
 Acton Street between                                            West          39%                 29%
 St. Mary's School and Hopkins Street                            East          39%                 39%
 Albina Avenue between                                           West          48%                 48%
DR
 St. Mary's School and Hopkins Street                            East          100%                53%
 Hopkins Street between                                          North         100%                42%
 Gilman Street and Monterey Avenue                               South         83%                 74%
 Hopkins Court between                                           West          53%                 59%
 Albina Avenue and Hopkins Street                                East          55%                 60%
 Source: DMJM Harris ­ May 2008
 Notes:
 (1)
     Does not include school student parking adjacent to school property.
 (2)
     School student parking only.


As shown in Table 2, during the school midday period, the designated on-street school spaces along
Posen Avenue are at 100% occupancy. High occupancies were also observed along Hopkins Street
between Albina Avenue and Monterey Avenue, although some portions of curb along Hopkins Street
serve as bus stops or are otherwise marked as red zones.

Speeding
Speed surveys were conducted on Albina Avenue between Hopkins Street and Hopkins Court in
November 2007 by the City of Berkeley. The results indicate that the 85th percentile speed for traffic
using this stretch of Albina Avenue is between 24 and 26 miles per hour both during and outside the
weekday school peak periods, which is consistent with the posted speed limit of 25 mph. The data would
also seem to confirm conclusions from the 2005 study, which stated that speeding was not a significant
problem. The City of Berkeley speed survey data is included in Appendix C.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 11


Travel Demand
Although the school's Master Plan proposes several large projects to improve facilities for student,
faculty, and staff use, it does not propose an increase in enrollment. Therefore, an increase in the
number of school-generated vehicle trips is not expected as a result of implementation of the Master Plan




                                                  T
projects and a quantitative traffic analysis of the expected impacts was not conducted.

Potential Impacts due to Implementation of the Master Plan
Traffic and Circulation
An LOS analysis of six key intersections in the vicinity of the school indicated that the effect of school
traffic on intersection performance is most noticeable at the intersections of Hopkins Street / Albina
Avenue, Hopkins Street / Hopkins Court, and Albina Avenue / Hopkins Court. However, the overall effect




                  AF
of school traffic on the performance of nearby intersections was generally negligible, as the intersections
already perform at LOS C or better. All study intersections performed better than the City of Berkeley
policy standard of LOS D. Average delays were generally only one to two seconds higher with school
than without school. Since the Master Plan does not propose any increases in student enrollment, it is
unlikely that school-related traffic volumes will increase as a result of implementation of the Master Plan,
in which case any future deterioration in level of service would not be a direct result of the school.

Furthermore, since the Master Plan does not propose any changes to campus access, it is unlikely that
circulation patterns will change as a result of implementation of the Master Plan.

Transit
The Master Plan does not propose any increases in student enrollment. Therefore, it is unlikely that
school-related transit trips will increase as a result of implementation of the Master Plan. Because no
increases in automobile, pedestrian, or bicycle traffic are expected, impacts to transit operations due to
other traffic is not expected.

Since the Master Plan does not propose any changes which would shift school-related trips onto transit, it
DR
is not expected that the Master Plan would cause an increase in transit trips. Transit services in the area
currently operate with excess capacity.

Pedestrian and Bike
The Master Plan does not propose any increases in student enrollment. Therefore, it is unlikely that
school-related pedestrian and bike trips will increase as a result of implementation of the Master Plan.

Since it is not expected that the Master Plan will change traffic or circulation patterns in the area, no
impacts to pedestrian or bike safety are expected. Observations of pedestrian and bicycle conditions are
generally good and that pedestrian and bicycle access to the school is generally safe, given the
constraints of Hopkins Street.

Parking
The Master Plan proposes an increase in on-campus parking of 15 spaces, which is expected to relieve
school midday on-street parking demand as some students currently park in on-street spaces in non-
designated areas.

Although implementation of the Master Plan will allow for the simultaneous use of some facilities such as
the existing gymnasium and the proposed multi-use facility, the school should ensure that any events do
not exceed the school's on-campus parking capacity. The school should encourage parents and other
visitors to use only on-campus parking for these events.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 12


The proposed chapel is intended primarily for student use and will likely not be used for regular Sunday
services. Although special services would occasionally be offered, turnout for similar services in the
school's existing facilities has historically been low. Given that the chapel will only have capacity for 200
persons and any special events will involve parents and their schoolchildren who would likely be




                                                  T
carpooling, on-campus parking is expected to be sufficient to handle parking demand for these events.
The school should encourage all visitors for such an event to use only on-campus parking.

Construction Impacts
Construction of the projects proposed in the Master Plan could cause significant impacts to the
surrounding neighborhood if not properly managed. While some construction activities such as the
athletic field renovation could feasibly occur entirely outside of the school year, the proposed renovation
and construction of other campus facilities would run into the school year.




                  AF
Since funding is dependent upon donations, the school has no definite schedule for the proposed Master
Plan projects, but has indicated that renovation of the athletic field is the first priority and would start
construction immediately. Improvements to the music building, the new chapel, and renovation and
expansion of Saint Joseph's Hall would follow, all three of which would start construction within the next
five years. The other projects would start construction within the next 10 to 20 years.

Because school student parking is at capacity, any temporary removal of on-campus parking due to
construction activities would likely force students who currently park on campus to use on-street spaces in
non-designated areas. Therefore, staging for materials, parking for construction vehicles, and other
construction activities should be done on-site in areas not currently used for on-campus parking.

It should also be noted that because of the heavy residential nature of the neighborhood, including many
narrow streets, it will be necessary to ensure that construction truck traffic does not cause unnecessary
traffic, safety, or noise impacts. The project sponsor should consult with City of Albany and City of
Berkeley staff to draft a truck routing plan and ensure that construction-related traffic impacts are kept to
a minimum.
DR
Recommendations
Enforce Existing "Good Neighbor" Policies
Based on observations of existing conditions and the results of the traffic counts, more consistent school
enforcement of traffic rules and regulations is recommended. On the day of observation, the number of
vehicles using Hopkins Court was observed to have increased since the 2005 study. Counts indicated
that traffic on Hopkins Court is significantly higher on school days than on non-school days. Because
Hopkins Court has an extremely narrow roadway and sidewalk, use of Hopkins Court by school traffic
should be immediately discouraged, with the use of alternative routes--including but not limited to Albina
Avenue--encouraged. Staff should be present on Albina Avenue on a consistent basis to discourage use
of Hopkins Court.

It is also recommended that school staff also monitor speeding vehicles, particularly along Albina Avenue.
While the data indicates that there is not a significant difference in 85th percentile speeds between school
peak and school off-peak periods, school staff could take a more active role to reduce speeds further as
this a particularly sensitive issue with City of Berkeley neighbors. Since there is significant student
pedestrian traffic along Albina Avenue, voluntary enforcement of speeding laws would seem to benefit all
stakeholders. If speeding is perceived to be a serious issue, a speed bump would be an effective
deterrent for speeding along Albina Avenue, but any traffic calming measures would need approval from
the appropriate City of Berkeley staff before implementation.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 13


Encourage Use of the Monterey Avenue Drop-off Zone
In addition, parents should be encouraged to use the Monterey Avenue drop-off zone, which is currently
significantly underutilized. One goal could be to require that a certain percentage of school-generated
vehicle trips use the Monterey Avenue zone. This could be feasibly accomplished by forcing vehicles




                                                  T
which have license plate numbers ending in certain numbers or students who belong to certain classes to
use only that zone on a given day or week. Compliance could be enforced by having school staff present
at each of the drop-off zones. This solution is simple, but would more equitably distribute school-related
vehicle trips among the three access points.

Implement Angled Parking on Posen Avenue
Recommended in the 2005 study was the introduction of angled parking along the south side of Posen
Avenue east of the existing school driveway. Angled parking would not only increase the number of




                  AF
available school parking spaces but also reduce the travel lane width in the eastbound direction and
encourage drivers to drive slower. The 2005 study conducted a survey which indicated that 7% of
students (42 students) drove to campus either alone or with others and parked in on-street spaces
surrounding the campus. It is expected that the implementation of angled parking could relieve some of
the existing demand for on-street spaces due to school-related traffic.

Encourage Use of Alternative Travel Modes
Given the high traffic volumes in the area and the fact that students and faculty generally bring some form
of baggage with them on their trip, increasing bicycle usage is not expected to be an effective means of
reducing school-related automobile traffic. Long distances, terrain, and weather conditions can also
easily discourage bicycling to work or school. Although bike racks were recently installed at three
locations on campus, only two to three staff and faculty bike regularly to the school.

Transit use, however, could be encouraged among school students, faculty, and staff by providing
incentives, such as discounted transit passes or tickets. Such programs have proven successful at other
educational facilities including Stanford University and UC Berkeley, albeit on a much larger scale. In
conjunction with encouraging transit use could be the provision of a free shuttle running between the
DR
North Berkeley BART station and the school, timed to the arrival of BART trains or AC Transit buses at
the station. By removing the ten- to fifteen-minute walk between the station and campus, more students
could find BART or AC Transit an attractive transportation alternative.

Conduct a Feasibility Study for a Hopkins Street Residential Parking Permit (RPP) Zone
Based on the parking occupancy surveys, occupancy rates along Hopkins Street between Gilman Street
and Monterey Avenue are higher during the school midday period than in the weekday evening period.
However, the problem appears to be concentrated to Hopkins Street, as most other streets in the area
have relatively low on-street parking occupancy.

A residential parking permit (RPP) zone could feasibly be implemented along Hopkins Street and
surrounding streets to ensure that residents have sufficient on-street parking for their own use, which
would likely force non-residents who currently park there to use other streets. Such a measure, however,
would require approval from the Berkeley Traffic Engineer's Office and Berkeley City Council before
implementation. It would also be necessary to perform additional study, particularly on the stretch of
Hopkins Street east of Monterey Avenue, which is home to several local businesses. A reduction in on-
street visitor parking in the neighborhood could have a significant impact on these businesses. It should
also be noted that the neighborhood is within both the City of Berkeley and the City of Albany, so a RPP
zone implemented by the City of Berkeley could force vehicles to park in Albany instead. Any proposed
zone would likely require input from City of Albany staff as well to ensure that any perceived on-street
parking issues are not simply pushed somewhere else.
Mr. John Courtney
May 19, 2008
Transportation Impacts of the Proposed Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan
Page 14


Conclusions
Because school enrollment will not increase, implementation of the Saint Mary's College High School
Master Plan is not expected to impact traffic conditions in the vicinity of the campus. However, there may
be some impacts as a result of construction activities which should be managed effectively and kept to a




                                                  T
minimum. The school should consult with both City of Albany and City of Berkeley staff to develop a
construction traffic plan that addresses any traffic, safety, or other environmental concerns that may arise
as a result of construction activities on campus.

Observations and data on existing conditions indicate that the school is generally a "good neighbor,"
considering that it is located within a primarily residential neighborhood and has limited access.
Increased traffic enforcement by school staff is recommended to reduce speeding and use of Hopkins
Court by school-related vehicles. Other improvement measures could be implemented by the school on a




                  AF
"good faith" basis, including more equitable use of the three existing drop-off zones and the
encouragement of transit use.

The midday parking occupancy rates along Hopkins Street between Gilman Street and Monterey Avenue
would appear to justify a residential parking permit (RPP) zone. Implementation of an RPP zone would,
however, require a comprehensive study of all streets in the area and approval from the City of Berkeley,
and likely the City of Albany.
DR
                                  Transportation Impacts of the Proposed
                            Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan




               T
         Appendix
AF
 A: Intersection Turning Movement Counts
 B: Pneumatic Hose Counts
 C: Speed Survey Data
 D: Intersection Level of Service Calculations
DR


                                                           May 19, 2008
DR
  AF
     T
                                   Transportation Impacts of the Proposed
                             Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan




                     T
Appendix A: Intersection Turning Movement Counts



   AF
DR


                                                            May 19, 2008
DR
  AF
     T
                                                                                              All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                      (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                     F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                      File Name          : 08-7200-001 GILMAN-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                              Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date         : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           GILMAN ST.                               HOPKINS ST.                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                          Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds              App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM      46       0     0    0            46       0       8    23     2                   31          0       0     0    0                 0      0       8     0     0          8              2            85            87
    07:15 AM      66       0     0    4            66       0       8    43     0                   51          0       0     0    0                 0      0      14     0     0         14              4           131           135
    07:30 AM      80       0     1    4            81       0      13    35     1                   48          0       0     0    0                 0      2      19     0     0         21              5           150           155
    07:45 AM      94       0     6    3           100       0      27    55     0                   82          0       0     0    0                 0      2      32     0     0         34              3           216           219
        Total    286       0     7   11           293       0      56   156     3                  212          0       0     0    0                 0      4      73     0     0         77             14           582           596

    08:00 AM     102       0       3     5        105       0     40          50          0         90          0       0          0    0            0      5     23     0     0          28              5           223           228
    08:15 AM      93       0       4     8         97       0     35          70          0        105          0       0          0    0            0      4     33     0     0          37              8           239           247
    08:30 AM      98       0       7     3        105       0     37          78          1        115          0       0          0    0            0      6     18     0     1          24              5           244           249
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                 104
                 397



                  88
                  88
                  82
                  83
                 341

                  91
                  76
                  94
                  87
                 348

                1372
                96.6
                39.4
                    RA     0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   0
                                  14



                                   6
                                   3
                                   6
                                   4
                                  19

                                   6
                                   1
                                   1
                                   1
                                   9

                                  49
                                 3.4
                                 1.4
                                         2
                                        18



                                         3
                                         2
                                         4
                                         3
                                        12

                                         4
                                         3
                                         4
                                         5
                                        16

                                        57
                                                  104
                                                  411



                                                   94
                                                   91
                                                   88
                                                   87
                                                  360

                                                   97
                                                   77
                                                   95
                                                   88
                                                  357

                                                1421

                                                 40.9
                                                            0
                                                            0



                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                                  48
                                                                 160



                                                                  20
                                                                  23
                                                                  24
                                                                  21
                                                                  88

                                                                  21
                                                                  21
                                                                  28
                                                                  28
                                                                  98

                                                                  402
                                                                 24.7
                                                                 11.6
                                                                              79
                                                                             277



                                                                              92
                                                                              92
                                                                             105
                                                                              94
                                                                             383

                                                                             103
                                                                             104
                                                                             111
                                                                              94
                                                                             412

                                                                            1228
                                                                            75.3
                                                                            35.3
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          1



                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0

                                                                                          0
                                                                                          1
                                                                                          1
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          2

                                                                                          6
                                                                                                   127
                                                                                                   437



                                                                                                   112
                                                                                                   115
                                                                                                   129
                                                                                                   115
                                                                                                   471

                                                                                                   124
                                                                                                   125
                                                                                                   139
                                                                                                   122
                                                                                                   510

                                                                                                 1630

                                                                                                  46.9
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                           17



                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                           12

                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                           14

                                                                                                                                                            47
                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                 103



                                                                                                                                                                   29
                                                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                                                                   25
                                                                                                                                                                   97

                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                 107

                                                                                                                                                                  380
                                                                                                                                                                   89
                                                                                                                                                                 10.9
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               1



                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                          31
                                                                                                                                                                                         120



                                                                                                                                                                                          34
                                                                                                                                                                                          21
                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                                                                          29
                                                                                                                                                                                         109

                                                                                                                                                                                          32
                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                                                                                                                                                                                          34
                                                                                                                                                                                         121

                                                                                                                                                                                         427

                                                                                                                                                                                        12.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                         20



                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         12

                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18

                                                                                                                                                                                                         64

                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      262
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      968



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      940

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      253
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      264
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      988

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3478

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     98.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    264
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    988



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    243
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    229
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    234
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    952

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   257
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   269
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   249
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1006

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3542




                                   GILMAN ST.                                      HOPKINS ST.                                                                                 HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                       Westbound                                          Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left           Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total    Left   Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 09:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM          102         0          3       105            0            40          50               90          0          0            0           0        5      23             0                 28               223
        08:15 AM           93         0          4        97            0            35          70              105          0          0            0           0        4      33             0                 37               239
        08:30 AM           98         0          7       105            0            37          78              115          0          0            0           0        6      18             0                 24               244
        08:45 AM          104         0          0       104            0            48          79              127          0          0            0           0        2      29             0                 31               262
     Total Volume         397         0         14       411            0           160         277              437          0          0            0           0       17     103             0                120               968
      % App. Total       96.6         0        3.4                      0          36.6        63.4                           0          0            0                 14.2    85.8             0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                   GILMAN ST.
                                                                                                         Out           In     Total
                                                                                                          294           411     705


                                                                                                             14     0             397
                                                                                                          Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                294
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                          500
                                                                         17




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                           277
                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         120


                                                                              103
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                160


                                                                                                                                                                                  437
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                         Left
                                                 174
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                             0


                                                                                                                                                                                          937
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM           91         0          6      97                             0     21    103
                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                       Thru Right




                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                                                       124
                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                       0      0      0                  0                       3     29      0    32    253
        02:15 PM           76         0          1      77                             0     21    104                 125             0      0      0                  0                       3     22      0    25    227
        02:30 PM           94         0          1      95                             0     28    111                 139             0      0      0                  0                       2     28      0    30    264
        02:45 PM           87         0          1      88                             0     28     94                 122             0      0      0                  0                       6     28      0    34    244
     Total Volume         348         0          9     357                             0     98    412                 510             0      0      0                  0                      14    107      0   121    988
      % App. Total       97.5         0        2.5                                     0   19.2   80.8                                 0      0      0                                       11.6   88.4      0
              PHF        .926      .000       .375    .920                          .000   .875   .928                 .917         .000   .000   .000                .000                   .583   .922   .000   .890   .936
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                              File Name           : 08-7200-001 GILMAN-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                      Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                      Start Date          : 03/27/2008
                                                                                      Page No             :3

                                                                GILMAN ST.
                                                     Out            In     Total
                                                      426            357     783


                                                           9     0            348
                                                       Right Thru            Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              228
                          Total




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            455
                                    14




                                                                                             Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                                               412
                                                                  North




                                                                                                               HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.

                    121


                                         107
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                    510
                                                                                                     98
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                             Left
            107
           Out




                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                            965
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0            0        0
                                                     Out            In        Total
                                                                                               All Traffic Data




                                                                         FT
                                                                                                       (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                      F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                       File Name          : 08-7200-001 GILMAN-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                                               Start Date         : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No            :1


                                                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           GILMAN ST.                                HOPKINS ST.                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                          Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds              App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM      40       0     0    1             40       0      13    25     1                   38          0       0     0    0                 0      1       8     0     0          9              2            87            89
    07:15 AM      60       0     3    2             63       0      14    29     0                   43          0       0     0    0                 0      1      16     0     0         17              2           123           125
    07:30 AM      71       0     0    1             71       0      25    50     3                   75          0       0     0    0                 0      2      21     0     0         23              4           169           173
    07:45 AM      97       0     3    3            100       0      38    83     5                  121          0       0     0    0                 0      4      35     0     0         39              8           260           268
        Total    268       0     6    7            274       0      90   187     9                  277          0       0     0    0                 0      8      80     0     0         88             16           639           655

    08:00 AM      89       0       3     2          92       0     28          52          3         80          0       0          0    0            0      4     31     0     0          35              5           207           212
    08:15 AM      94       0       5     4          99       0     51          48          2         99          0       0          0    0            0      3     20     0     1          23              7           221           228
    08:30 AM     100       0       3     2         103       0     35          56          3         91          0       0          0    0            0      2     30     0     0          32              5           226           231
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                  98
                 381



                  84
                  77
                  62
                  71
                 294

                  86
                  86
                  77
                  92
                 341

                1284
                97.1
                  39
                    RA     0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   2
                                  13



                                   5
                                   1
                                   1
                                   2
                                   9

                                   2
                                   2
                                   2
                                   5
                                  11

                                  39
                                 2.9
                                 1.2
                                         6
                                        14




                                        32
                                          1
                                          0
                                          0
                                          1
                                          2

                                          1
                                          4
                                          2
                                          2
                                          9
                                                   100
                                                   394



                                                    89
                                                    78
                                                    63
                                                    73
                                                   303

                                                    88
                                                    88
                                                    79
                                                    97
                                                   352

                                                 1323

                                                  40.2
                                                             0
                                                             0



                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0

                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0

                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                   37
                                                                  151



                                                                   23
                                                                   19
                                                                   28
                                                                   23
                                                                   93

                                                                   17
                                                                   28
                                                                   23
                                                                   29
                                                                   97

                                                                   431
                                                                  28.2
                                                                  13.1
                                                                               78
                                                                              234



                                                                               77
                                                                               93
                                                                               74
                                                                               83
                                                                              327

                                                                               80
                                                                               85
                                                                              100
                                                                               85
                                                                              350

                                                                             1098
                                                                             71.8
                                                                             33.3
                                                                                       32
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           8



                                                                                           0
                                                                                           1
                                                                                           4
                                                                                           2
                                                                                           7

                                                                                           0
                                                                                           6
                                                                                           2
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           8
                                                                                                    115
                                                                                                    385



                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                    112
                                                                                                    102
                                                                                                    106
                                                                                                    420

                                                                                                     97
                                                                                                    113
                                                                                                    123
                                                                                                    114
                                                                                                    447

                                                                                                  1529

                                                                                                   46.4
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                            10



                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                             5

                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                            11

                                                                                                                                                             34
                                                                                                                                                            7.7
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                   20
                                                                                                                                                                  101



                                                                                                                                                                    28
                                                                                                                                                                    23
                                                                                                                                                                    29
                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                    97

                                                                                                                                                                   33
                                                                                                                                                                   26
                                                                                                                                                                   38
                                                                                                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                                                  131

                                                                                                                                                                   409
                                                                                                                                                                  92.3
                                                                                                                                                                  12.4
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1



                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1

                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                          111



                                                                                                                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                           24
                                                                                                                                                                                           31
                                                                                                                                                                                           19
                                                                                                                                                                                          102

                                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                                                                                                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                           40
                                                                                                                                                                                           39
                                                                                                                                                                                          142

                                                                                                                                                                                          443

                                                                                                                                                                                         13.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          23




                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          18

                                                                                                                                                                                                          66
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9




                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       890



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       196
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       198
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       825

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       229
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       941

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3295

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     913



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     218
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     834

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     252
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     959

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3361




                                   GILMAN ST.                                       HOPKINS ST.                                                                                 HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                        Westbound                                          Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left           Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total    Left   Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM           97         0          3       100             0            38          83              121          0          0            0           0        4      35             0                 39               260
        08:00 AM           89         0          3        92             0            28          52               80          0          0            0           0        4      31             0                 35               207
        08:15 AM           94         0          5        99             0            51          48               99          0          0            0           0        3      20             0                 23               221
        08:30 AM          100         0          3       103             0            35          56               91          0          0            0           0        2      30             0                 32               226
     Total Volume         380         0         14       394             0           152         239              391          0          0            0           0       13     116             0                129               914
      % App. Total       96.4         0        3.6                       0          38.9        61.1                           0          0            0                 10.1    89.9             0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                   GILMAN ST.
                                                                                                         Out           In     Total
                                                                                                          252           394     646


                                                                                                             14     0             380
                                                                                                          Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                295
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                          496
                                                                         13




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                           239
                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         129


                                                                              116
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                152


                                                                                                                                                                                  391
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                         Left
                                                 166
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                             0


                                                                                                                                                                                          887
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM           86         0          2      88                             0     17     80
                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                       Thru Right




                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                                                        97
                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                       0      0      0                  0                        2     33      0    35    220
        02:15 PM           86         0          2      88                             0     28     85                 113             0      0      0                  0                        2     26      0    28    229
        02:30 PM           77         0          2      79                             0     23    100                 123             0      0      0                  0                        2     38      0    40    242
        02:45 PM           92         0          5      97                             0     29     85                 114             0      0      0                  0                        5     34      0    39    250
     Total Volume         341         0         11     352                             0     97    350                 447             0      0      0                  0                      11     131      0   142    941
      % App. Total       96.9         0        3.1                                     0   21.7   78.3                                 0      0      0                                         7.7   92.3      0
              PHF        .927      .000       .550    .907                          .000   .836   .875                 .909         .000   .000   .000                .000                   .550    .862   .000   .888   .941
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                              File Name           : 08-7200-001 GILMAN-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                      Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                      Start Date          : 04/01/2008
                                                                                      Page No             :3

                                                                GILMAN ST.
                                                     Out            In     Total
                                                      361            352     713


                                                          11     0            341
                                                       Right Thru            Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              250
                          Total




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            472
                                    11




                                                                                             Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                                               350
                                                                  North




                                                                                                               HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.

                    142


                                         131
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                    447
                                                                                                     97
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                             Left
            108
           Out




                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                            919
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0            0        0
                                                     Out            In        Total
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                      File Name         : 08-7200-002 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                              Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date        : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                              Page No           :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           ALBINA AVE.                              HOPKINS ST.                                                                                    HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                         Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds             App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       0     0     1            1       0      33     2     0                  35          0       0     0    0                 0      2      51     0     0         53               1           89            90
    07:15 AM       1       0     3     0            4       0      48     1     0                  49          0       0     0    0                 0      0      80     0     0         80               0          133           133
    07:30 AM       1       0     2     3            3       0      45     1     1                  46          0       0     0    0                 0      0      96     0     0         96               4          145           149
    07:45 AM       1       0     3     1            4       0      81     2     0                  83          0       0     0    0                 0      5     124     0     0        129               1          216           217
        Total      4       0     8     5           12       0     207     6     1                 213          0       0     0    0                 0      7     351     0     0        358               6          583           589

    08:00 AM        0      0       3     1          3       0      90        2           1         92          0       0          0    0            0      0    127     0     0         127              2           222           224
    08:15 AM        0      0       2     4          2       0     104        3           0        107          0       0          0    0            0      3    119     0     0         122              4           231           235
    08:30 AM        0      0       1     2          1       0     108        3           0        111          0       0          0    0            0      2    119     0     0         121              2           233           235
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    2
                    2



                    1
                    0
                    4
                    4
                    9

                    2
                    0
                    1
                    3
                    6

                   21
                 26.6
                  0.6
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   8
                                  14



                                   6
                                   2
                                   7
                                   4
                                  19

                                   8
                                   3
                                   3
                                   3
                                  17

                                  58
                                73.4
                                 1.7
                                         3
                                        10



                                         5
                                         4
                                         3
                                         1
                                        13

                                         5
                                         6
                                         4
                                         5
                                        20

                                        48
                                                   10
                                                   16



                                                    7
                                                    2
                                                   11
                                                    8
                                                   28

                                                   10
                                                    3
                                                    4
                                                    6
                                                   23

                                                   79

                                                   2.3
                                                            0
                                                            0



                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                                  120
                                                                  422



                                                                  111
                                                                  112
                                                                  121
                                                                  116
                                                                  460

                                                                  117
                                                                  120
                                                                  134
                                                                  119
                                                                  490

                                                                 1579
                                                                 98.6
                                                                   46
                                                                             2
                                                                            10



                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             2
                                                                             0
                                                                             4

                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             0
                                                                             1
                                                                             3

                                                                             23
                                                                            1.4
                                                                            0.7
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         1



                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0

                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         1

                                                                                         3
                                                                                                  122
                                                                                                  432



                                                                                                  112
                                                                                                  113
                                                                                                  123
                                                                                                  116
                                                                                                  464

                                                                                                  118
                                                                                                  121
                                                                                                  134
                                                                                                  120
                                                                                                  493

                                                                                                1602

                                                                                                 46.6
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                          13



                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                          16

                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           5

                                                                                                                                                           41
                                                                                                                                                          2.3
                                                                                                                                                          1.2
                                                                                                                                                                125
                                                                                                                                                                490



                                                                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                                                                104
                                                                                                                                                                101
                                                                                                                                                                105
                                                                                                                                                                420

                                                                                                                                                                120
                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                                                                                                                                121
                                                                                                                                                                113
                                                                                                                                                                452

                                                                                                                                                                1713
                                                                                                                                                                97.7
                                                                                                                                                                49.9
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                              1

                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                        133
                                                                                                                                                                                        503



                                                                                                                                                                                        117
                                                                                                                                                                                        107
                                                                                                                                                                                        105
                                                                                                                                                                                        107
                                                                                                                                                                                        436

                                                                                                                                                                                        123
                                                                                                                                                                                         98
                                                                                                                                                                                        122
                                                                                                                                                                                        114
                                                                                                                                                                                        457

                                                                                                                                                                                      1754

                                                                                                                                                                                       51.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        11



                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        14

                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                        21

                                                                                                                                                                                                        52

                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     265
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     951



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     239
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     928

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     251
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     260
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     973

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3435

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    98.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   268
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   962



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   241
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   233
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   942

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   256
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   228
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   264
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   994

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3487




                                   ALBINA AVE.                                    HOPKINS ST.                                                                                 HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                          Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left          Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total    Left   Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM            0         0          3         3            0           90            2              92          0          0            0           0        0    127              0                127               222
        08:15 AM            0         0          2         2            0          104            3             107          0          0            0           0        3     119             0                122               231
        08:30 AM            0         0          1         1            0          108            3             111          0          0            0           0        2     119             0                121               233
        08:45 AM            2         0          8        10            0         120             2             122          0          0            0           0        8     125             0                133               265
     Total Volume           2         0         14        16            0          422           10             432          0          0            0           0       13     490             0                503               951
      % App. Total       12.5         0       87.5                      0         97.7          2.3                          0          0            0                  2.6    97.4             0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                    ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                                          Out            In     Total
                                                                                                            23             16      39


                                                                                                              14     0                   2
                                                                                                           Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data


                                                                939
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               492
                                                                         13




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.
                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         503


                                                                              490
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                     422


                                                                                                                                                                                       432
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                              Left
                                                 436
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                               924
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            2         0          8      10                             0    117       1
                                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                        Thru Right




                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                        118
                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            0      0      0                  0                        3    120      0   123    251
        02:15 PM            0         0          3       3                             0    120       1                 121                 0      0      0                  0                        0     98      0    98    222
        02:30 PM            1         0          3       4                             0    134       0                 134                 0      0      0                  0                        1    121      0   122    260
        02:45 PM            3         0          3       6                             0    119       1                 120                 0      0      0                  0                        1    113      0   114    240
     Total Volume           6         0         17      23                             0    490       3                 493                 0      0      0                  0                        5    452      0   457    973
      % App. Total       26.1         0       73.9                                     0   99.4     0.6                                     0      0      0                                         1.1   98.9      0
              PHF        .500      .000       .531    .575                          .000   .914   .750                  .920             .000   .000   .000                .000                   .417    .934   .000   .929   .936
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                              File Name          : 08-7200-002 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                      Start Date         : 03/27/2008
                                                                                      Page No            :3

                                                              ALBINA AVE.
                                                     Out           In     Total
                                                            8        23      31


                                                          17     0                6
                                                       Right Thru          Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              964
                          Total




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                           458
                                      5




                                                                                            Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                North




                                                                                                              HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                3
                    457


                                         452
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                   490


                                                                                                                   493
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                            Left
            507
           Out




                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                           951
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0          0         0
                                                     Out          In         Total
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                      File Name         : 08-7200-002 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                              Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                              Start Date        : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                              Page No           :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           ALBINA AVE.                              HOPKINS ST.                                                                                    HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                         Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds             App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       0       0     0     2            0       0      37     1     0                  38          0       0     0    0                 0      0      45     0     0         45               2           83            85
    07:15 AM       2       0     6     3            8       0      40     9     0                  49          0       0     0    0                 0      9      67     0     0         76               3          133           136
    07:30 AM       7       0    20     1           27       0      56    11     0                  67          0       0     0    0                 0     21      72     0     0         93               1          187           188
    07:45 AM      26       0    26     1           52       0      90    44     0                 134          0       0     0    0                 0     50      80     0     0        130               1          316           317
        Total     35       0    52     7           87       0     223    65     0                 288          0       0     0    0                 0     80     264     0     0        344               7          719           726

    08:00 AM        8      0       6     7         14       0      79        3           0         82          0       0          0    0            0      5    112     0     0         117              7           213           220
    08:15 AM        2      0       6     9          8       0      87        2           0         89          0       0          0    0            0      5    112     0     0         117              9           214           223
    08:30 AM        1      0       2     4          3       0      90        4           0         94          0       0          0    0            0      3    127     0     0         130              4           227           231
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    6
                   17



                    4
                    1
                    2
                    3
                   10

                    1
                   13
                    4
                    5
                   23

                   85
                 41.1
                  2.5
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   1
                                  15



                                   6
                                   3
                                   2
                                   2
                                  13

                                   4
                                  15
                                  12
                                  11
                                  42

                                 122
                                58.9
                                 3.6
                                         7
                                        27



                                         6
                                         4
                                         0
                                         3
                                        13

                                         3
                                         4
                                         3
                                         5
                                        15

                                        62
                                                    7
                                                   32



                                                   10
                                                    4
                                                    4
                                                    5
                                                   23

                                                    5
                                                   28
                                                   16
                                                   16
                                                   65

                                                  207

                                                   6.1
                                                            0
                                                            0



                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                                  113
                                                                  369



                                                                   95
                                                                  109
                                                                  101
                                                                  102
                                                                  407

                                                                   95
                                                                   97
                                                                  113
                                                                  102
                                                                  407

                                                                 1406
                                                                 93.6
                                                                 41.5
                                                                             1
                                                                            10



                                                                             0
                                                                             2
                                                                             0
                                                                             2
                                                                             4

                                                                             6
                                                                             5
                                                                             2
                                                                             4
                                                                            17

                                                                             96
                                                                            6.4
                                                                            2.8
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0



                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0

                                                                                         0
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         2

                                                                                         2
                                                                                                  114
                                                                                                  379



                                                                                                   95
                                                                                                  111
                                                                                                  101
                                                                                                  104
                                                                                                  411

                                                                                                  101
                                                                                                  102
                                                                                                  115
                                                                                                  106
                                                                                                  424

                                                                                                1502

                                                                                                 44.4
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                          17



                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                           9

                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                          38

                                                                                                                                                         144
                                                                                                                                                         8.6
                                                                                                                                                         4.3
                                                                                                                                                                116
                                                                                                                                                                467



                                                                                                                                                                104
                                                                                                                                                                 96
                                                                                                                                                                 88
                                                                                                                                                                 86
                                                                                                                                                                374

                                                                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                                                                101
                                                                                                                                                                105
                                                                                                                                                                112
                                                                                                                                                                428

                                                                                                                                                                1533
                                                                                                                                                                91.4
                                                                                                                                                                45.3
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                        120
                                                                                                                                                                                        484



                                                                                                                                                                                        110
                                                                                                                                                                                         96
                                                                                                                                                                                         89
                                                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                                                        383

                                                                                                                                                                                        118
                                                                                                                                                                                        112
                                                                                                                                                                                        113
                                                                                                                                                                                        123
                                                                                                                                                                                        466

                                                                                                                                                                                      1677

                                                                                                                                                                                       49.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        27



                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        13

                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                        17

                                                                                                                                                                                                        64

                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     241
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     895



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     197
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     817

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     245
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     955

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3386

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    98.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   248
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   922



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   830

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   248
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   972

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3450




                                   ALBINA AVE.                                    HOPKINS ST.                                                                                 HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                          Northbound                               Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left          Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total    Left   Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM           26         0         26        52            0           90         44               134          0          0            0           0      50       80             0                130               316
        08:00 AM            8         0          6        14            0           79           3               82          0          0            0           0        5     112             0                117               213
        08:15 AM            2         0          6         8            0           87           2               89          0          0            0           0        5     112             0                117               214
        08:30 AM            1         0          2         3            0           90           4               94          0          0            0           0        3    127              0                130               227
     Total Volume          37         0         40        77            0          346          53              399          0          0            0           0       63     431             0                494               970
      % App. Total       48.1         0       51.9                      0         86.7        13.3                           0          0            0                 12.8    87.2             0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                   ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                                         Out            In     Total
                                                                                                          116             77     193


                                                                                                             40     0              37
                                                                                                          Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                880
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                          468
                                                                         63




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
                                                                                                                                                            53
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         494


                                                                              431
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                346


                                                                                                                                                                                  399
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                         Left
                                                 386
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                             0


                                                                                                                                                                                          867
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            1         0          4       5                             0     95      6
                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                       Thru Right




                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                                                       101
                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                       0      0      0                  0                        8    110      0   118    224
        02:15 PM           13         0         15      28                             0     97      5                 102             0      0      0                  0                      11     101      0   112    242
        02:30 PM            4         0         12      16                             0    113      2                 115             0      0      0                  0                        8    105      0   113    244
        02:45 PM            5         0         11      16                             0    102      4                 106             0      0      0                  0                      11     112      0   123    245
     Total Volume          23         0         42      65                             0    407     17                 424             0      0      0                  0                      38     428      0   466    955
      % App. Total       35.4         0       64.6                                     0     96      4                                 0      0      0                                         8.2   91.8      0
              PHF        .442      .000       .700    .580                          .000   .900   .708                 .922         .000   .000   .000                .000                   .864    .955   .000   .947   .974
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                              File Name          : 08-7200-002 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                      Start Date         : 04/01/2008
                                                                                      Page No            :3

                                                                ALBINA AVE.
                                                     Out             In     Total
                                                       55              65     120


                                                          42     0             23
                                                       Right Thru            Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              915
                          Total




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                           451
                                    38




                                                                                            Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                   North




                                                                                                              HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                               17
                    466


                                         428
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                   407


                                                                                                                   424
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                            Left
            449
           Out




                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                           875
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0            0        0
                                                     Out            In        Total
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                          Out        In         Total
                                                                                                                2         0         2


                                                                                                               0     0               0
                                                                                                           Right Thru         Left




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data


                                                                939
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                                           269
                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                           Left
                                                                                                                    North




                                                                                                                                                                              HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                         494


                                                                              171
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                 241


                                                                                                                                                                                   554
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                         323




                                                                                                                                                          Left
                                                 445




                                                                                                                                                           312
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                           823
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            0         0          0       0                            21     56       1
                                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                             204


                                                                                                           635
                                                                                                                 Thru Right




                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                     1


                                                                                                                   303




                                                                                                                     78
                                                                                                                         98



                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                            SACRAMENTO ST.
                                                                                                                          938




                                                                                                                                       63      0     22                 85                        0     57     66   123     286
        02:15 PM            0         0          0       0                            31     56       1              88                66      0     23                 89                        0     55     42    97     274
        02:30 PM            0         0          0       0                            29     66       2              97                67      0     29                 96                        0     55     62   117     310
        02:45 PM            0         0          0       0                            20     59       0              79                66      0     28                 94                        1     68     56   125     298
     Total Volume           0         0          0       0                           101    237       4             342               262      0    102                364                        1    235    226   462    1168
      % App. Total          0         0          0                                  29.5   69.3     1.2                                72      0     28                                         0.2   50.9   48.9
              PHF        .000      .000       .000    .000                          .815   .898   .500              .881             .978   .000   .879                .948                   .250    .864   .856   .924   .942
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                             File Name    : 08-7200-003 SACRAMENTO-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                     Start Date   : 03/27/2008
                                                                                     Page No      :3

                                                     Out         In         Total
                                                            5         0         5


                                                           0     0               0
                                                       Right Thru         Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              961
                          Total




                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                  337
                                      1




                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                North




                                                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                        4
                    462


                                         235
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                           237


                                                                                                                          342
                                                Unshifted
                                    226




                                                                                                    Left
            499




                                                                                                     101
           Out




                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                  679
                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                        262     0  102


                                                      327     364    691
                                                     Out     In    Total
                                                       SACRAMENTO ST.
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                         FT
                                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                 F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                         File Name        : 08-7200-003 SACRAMENTO-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                                     HOPKINS ST.                             SACRAMENTO ST.                                     HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds            App. Total Left Thru Right Peds             App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       0     1    0               2     39      21     0     0                 60    16     0     10    0                  26       0      14    30     3          44              3           132           135
    07:15 AM       0       0     0    0               0     43      25     0     6                 68    25     0      9    7                  34       0      24    46     4          70             17           172           189
    07:30 AM       0       1     0    0               1     51      32     0     5                 83    33     0     16    5                  49       0      22    55    16          77             26           210           236
    07:45 AM       0       1     0    0               1     71      67     0     0                138    66     0     28    1                  94       0      44    60    16         104             17           337           354
        Total      1       2     1    0               4    204     145     0    11                349   140     0     63   13                 203       0     104   191    39         295             63           851           914

    08:00 AM        0      0       0      0           0     73     50        0           2      123       33        0       16      2          49       0      44    78      0        122              4          294           298
    08:15 AM        0      0       0      0           0     75     61        0           0      136       29        0       22      1          51       0      45    69      5        114              6          301           307
    08:30 AM        0      0       0      0           0     82     52        0           2      134       38        0       19      7          57       1      49    81      2        131             11          322           333
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    0
                    0



                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    1
                 14.3
                    0
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           2
                        28.6
                           0
                                   0
                                   0



                                   0
                                   1
                                   0
                                   0
                                   1

                                   0
                                   0
                                   1
                                   1
                                   2

                                   4
                                57.1
                                 0.1
                                          0
                                          0



                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0

                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0

                                          0
                                                      0
                                                      0



                                                      0
                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      1

                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      1
                                                      1
                                                      2

                                                      7

                                                    0.2
                                                            46
                                                           276



                                                            21
                                                            22
                                                            16
                                                            19
                                                            78

                                                            17
                                                            25
                                                            26
                                                            23
                                                            91

                                                            649
                                                           45.2
                                                           15.9
                                                                   57
                                                                  220



                                                                   55
                                                                   59
                                                                   57
                                                                   38
                                                                  209

                                                                   51
                                                                   55
                                                                   53
                                                                   50
                                                                  209

                                                                   783
                                                                  54.6
                                                                  19.2
                                                                             0
                                                                             0



                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0

                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             1
                                                                             2
                                                                             3

                                                                              3
                                                                            0.2
                                                                            0.1
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      8
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      3
                                                                                     13

                                                                                     39
                                                                                         4
                                                                                         8



                                                                                         2
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         7
                                                                                                103
                                                                                                496



                                                                                                 76
                                                                                                 81
                                                                                                 73
                                                                                                 57
                                                                                                287

                                                                                                 68
                                                                                                 80
                                                                                                 80
                                                                                                 75
                                                                                                303

                                                                                               1435

                                                                                               35.1
                                                                                                          58
                                                                                                         158



                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                          51
                                                                                                          43
                                                                                                          62
                                                                                                         196

                                                                                                          50
                                                                                                          48
                                                                                                          54
                                                                                                          55
                                                                                                         207

                                                                                                         701
                                                                                                        68.5
                                                                                                        17.2
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                   0.2
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                            82



                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                                            88

                                                                                                                            22
                                                                                                                            22
                                                                                                                            23
                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                            88

                                                                                                                           321
                                                                                                                          31.3
                                                                                                                           7.9
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                   13



                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                   18

                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                   16

                                                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                                                               83
                                                                                                                                              240



                                                                                                                                               57
                                                                                                                                               77
                                                                                                                                               63
                                                                                                                                               88
                                                                                                                                              285

                                                                                                                                               72
                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                               78
                                                                                                                                               76
                                                                                                                                              296

                                                                                                                                            1024

                                                                                                                                             25.1
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                      0.1
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                               50
                                                                                                                                                              188



                                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                                               52
                                                                                                                                                               60
                                                                                                                                                               56
                                                                                                                                                              238

                                                                                                                                                               53
                                                                                                                                                               60
                                                                                                                                                               72
                                                                                                                                                               72
                                                                                                                                                              257

                                                                                                                                                              787
                                                                                                                                                             48.7
                                                                                                                                                             19.3
                                                                                                                                                                     70
                                                                                                                                                                    298



                                                                                                                                                                     41
                                                                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                                                                                                     27
                                                                                                                                                                     37
                                                                                                                                                                    145

                                                                                                                                                                     54
                                                                                                                                                                     57
                                                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                                                                                                                     41
                                                                                                                                                                    195

                                                                                                                                                                     829
                                                                                                                                                                    51.3
                                                                                                                                                                    20.3
                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                             9



                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                             9

                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                            36

                                                                                                                                                                            93
                                                                                                                                                                                      120
                                                                                                                                                                                      487



                                                                                                                                                                                      111
                                                                                                                                                                                       92
                                                                                                                                                                                       87
                                                                                                                                                                                       93
                                                                                                                                                                                      383

                                                                                                                                                                                      107
                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                                      115
                                                                                                                                                                                      113
                                                                                                                                                                                      452

                                                                                                                                                                                    1617

                                                                                                                                                                                     39.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                      30



                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                                      34


                                                                                                                                                                                                      36
                                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                                                                                      65

                                                                                                                                                                                                    192
                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  306
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1223



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   251
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   223
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   238
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   956

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  267
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  265
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1053

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4083

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  95.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                315
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1253



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 249
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 261
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 228
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 252
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 990

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                251
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                288
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1118

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4275




                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.                                 SACRAMENTO ST.                                 HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                    Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left         Thru   Right        App. Total         Left   Thru   Right App. Total              Left    Thru    Right          App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM            0         1          0         1          71            67          0           138            66        0         28             94        0      44           60                 104               337
        08:00 AM            0         0          0         0          73            50          0           123            33        0          16            49        0      44           78                 122               294
        08:15 AM            0         0          0         0          75            61          0           136            29        0          22            51        0      45           69                 114               301
        08:30 AM            0         0          0         0          82            52          0           134            38        0          19            57        1      49           81                 131               322
     Total Volume           0         1          0         1         301           230          0           531           166        0          85           251        1     182          288                 471              1254
      % App. Total          0       100          0                  56.7          43.3          0                        66.1        0        33.9                    0.2    38.6         61.1
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                         Out        In         Total
                                                                                                               1         1         2


                                                                                                              0     1               0
                                                                                                          Right Thru         Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                867
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                          267
                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                                           Left
                                                                                                                   North




                                                                                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                         471


                                                                              182
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                230


                                                                                                                                                                                  531
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                         288




                                                                                                                                                         Left
                                                 396




                                                                                                                                                          301
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                          798
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            0         0          0       0                            17     51      0
                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                            166


                                                                                                          590
                                                                                                                Thru Right




                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                  251




                                                                                                                    68
                                                                                                                        85



                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                           SACRAMENTO ST.
                                                                                                                         841




                                                                                                                                      50      0     22                 72                       0     53     54   107     247
        02:15 PM            0         0          0       0                            25     55      0              80                48      0     22                 70                       0     60     57   117     267
        02:30 PM            0         0          1       1                            26     53      1              80                54      1     23                 78                       0     72     43   115     274
        02:45 PM            0         0          1       1                            23     50      2              75                55      0     21                 76                       0     72     41   113     265
     Total Volume           0         0          2       2                            91    209      3             303               207      1     88                296                       0    257    195   452    1053
      % App. Total          0         0        100                                    30     69      1                              69.9    0.3   29.7                                          0   56.9   43.1
              PHF        .000      .000       .500    .500                          .875   .950   .375             .947             .941   .250   .957                .949                   .000   .892   .855   .966   .961
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                             File Name    : 08-7200-003 SACRAMENTO-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                     Start Date   : 04/01/2008
                                                                                     Page No      :3

                                                     Out         In         Total
                                                            4         2         6


                                                           2     0               0
                                                       Right Thru         Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              870
                          Total




                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                  345
                                      0




                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                North




                                                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                        3
                    452


                                         257
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                           209


                                                                                                                          303
                                                Unshifted
                                    195




                                                                                                    Left
            418
           Out




                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                      91


                                                                                                                                  648
                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                        207     1   88


                                                      286     296    582
                                                     Out     In    Total
                                                       SACRAMENTO ST.
                                                                                              All Traffic Data




                                                                         FT
                                                                                                      (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                     F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                     File Name           : 08-7200-004 HOPKINS-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                             Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                             Start Date          : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                             Page No             :1


                                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           HOPKINS CT                                HOPKINS ST.                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                         Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds             App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       0     1    2               2      0      49     0     0                  49          0       0     0    0                 0      1       21     0     0           22              2           73            75
    07:15 AM       0       0     0    0               0      0      58     1     0                  59          0       0     0    0                 0      0       34     0     0           34              0           93            93
    07:30 AM       3       0     1    2               4      0      78     3     0                  81          0       0     0    0                 0      0       41     0     0           41              2          126           128
    07:45 AM       0       0     1    1               1      0     112     0     0                 112          0       0     0    0                 0      1       63     0     0           64              1          177           178
        Total      4       0     3    5               7      0     297     4     0                 301          0       0     0    0                 0      2      159     0     0          161              5          469           474

    08:00 AM        0      0       2      2          2       0     145        1           1        146          0       0          0    0            0      0      66     0      0           66              3          214           217
    08:15 AM        2      0       0      1          2       0     155        1           0        156          0       0          0    0            0      0      54     0      0           54              1          212           213
    08:30 AM        0      0       4      1          4       0     118        2           0        120          0       0          0    0            0      0      65     0      0           65              1          189           190
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    2
                    4



                    0
                    1
                    0
                    1
                    2

                    1
                    0
                    0
                    1
                    2

                   12
                   48
                  0.5
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   0
                                   6



                                   0
                                   1
                                   0
                                   0
                                   1

                                   1
                                   0
                                   1
                                   1
                                   3

                                  13
                                  52
                                 0.5
                                        18
                                        15
                                        19
                                         7
                                        59

                                        11
                                         9
                                         0
                                         8
                                        28

                                        99
                                          3
                                          7
                                                     2
                                                    10




                                                    25
                                                      0
                                                      2
                                                      0
                                                      1
                                                      3

                                                      2
                                                      0
                                                      1
                                                      2
                                                      5



                                                      1
                                                             0
                                                             0



                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0

                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0

                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                   129
                                                                   547



                                                                    78
                                                                    68
                                                                    72
                                                                    76
                                                                   294

                                                                    82
                                                                    87
                                                                    95
                                                                    78
                                                                   342

                                                                  1480
                                                                  98.9
                                                                  56.6
                                                                              0
                                                                              4



                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              1
                                                                              1
                                                                              4

                                                                              1
                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              1
                                                                              4

                                                                              16
                                                                             1.1
                                                                             0.6
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          1



                                                                                          3
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          3

                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0

                                                                                          4
                                                                                                   129
                                                                                                   551



                                                                                                    80
                                                                                                    68
                                                                                                    73
                                                                                                    77
                                                                                                   298

                                                                                                    83
                                                                                                    89
                                                                                                    95
                                                                                                    79
                                                                                                   346

                                                                                                 1496

                                                                                                  57.2
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            4

                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                            2

                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                           0.7
                                                                                                                                                           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                   82
                                                                                                                                                                  267



                                                                                                                                                                   90
                                                                                                                                                                   80
                                                                                                                                                                   79
                                                                                                                                                                   79
                                                                                                                                                                  328

                                                                                                                                                                   81
                                                                                                                                                                   75
                                                                                                                                                                   85
                                                                                                                                                                   90
                                                                                                                                                                  331

                                                                                                                                                                  1085
                                                                                                                                                                  99.3
                                                                                                                                                                  41.5
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                16

                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                                                             82
                                                                                                                                                                                            267



                                                                                                                                                                                             90
                                                                                                                                                                                             80
                                                                                                                                                                                             82
                                                                                                                                                                                             80
                                                                                                                                                                                            332

                                                                                                                                                                                             81
                                                                                                                                                                                             75
                                                                                                                                                                                             85
                                                                                                                                                                                             92
                                                                                                                                                                                            333

                                                                                                                                                                                           1093

                                                                                                                                                                                           41.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                                                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                           26
                                                                                                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           78

                                                                                                                                                                                                           11



                                                                                                                                                                                                           29

                                                                                                                                                                                                         120
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9




                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        828



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        155
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        158
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        633

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        166
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        164
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        181
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        173
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        684

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2614

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       95.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      216
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      836



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      181
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      711

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      177
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      173
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      181
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      713

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2734




                                   HOPKINS CT                                      HOPKINS ST.                                                                                   HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                       Westbound                                          Northbound                                 Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left          Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total     Left    Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM            0         0          2         2             0         145             1             146          0          0            0            0       0          66           0                 66               214
        08:15 AM            2         0          0         2             0         155             1             156          0          0            0            0       0          54           0                 54               212
        08:30 AM            0         0          4         4             0          118            2             120          0          0            0            0       0          65           0                 65               189
        08:45 AM            2         0          0         2             0          129            0             129          0          0            0            0       0          82           0                 82               213
     Total Volume           4         0          6        10             0          547            4             551          0          0            0            0       0         267           0                267               828
      % App. Total         40         0         60                       0         99.3          0.7                          0          0            0                    0         100           0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                    HOPKINS CT
                                                                                                          Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                4         10      14


                                                                                                               6     0                   4
                                                                                                           Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data


                                                                820
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               271
                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                           Left
                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                         267


                                                                              267
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                     547


                                                                                                                                                                                       551
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                              Left
                                                 553
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                               822
        02:00 PM
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
                            1         0          1       2                             0     82       1
                                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                        Thru Right




                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                         83
                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            0      0      0                  0                        0     81      0    81    166
        02:15 PM            0         0          0       0                             0     87       2                  89                 0      0      0                  0                        0     75      0    75    164
        02:30 PM            0         0          1       1                             0     95       0                  95                 0      0      0                  0                        0     85      0    85    181
        02:45 PM            1         0          1       2                             0     78       1                  79                 0      0      0                  0                        2     90      0    92    173
     Total Volume           2         0          3       5                             0    342       4                 346                 0      0      0                  0                        2    331      0   333    684
      % App. Total         40         0         60                                     0   98.8     1.2                                     0      0      0                                         0.6   99.4      0
              PHF        .500      .000       .750    .625                          .000   .900   .500                  .911             .000   .000   .000                .000                   .250    .919   .000   .905   .945
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                              File Name       : 08-7200-004 HOPKINS-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                      Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                      Start Date      : 03/27/2008
                                                                                      Page No         :3

                                                              HOPKINS CT
                                                     Out          In     Total
                                                            6        5      11


                                                           3     0                2
                                                       Right Thru          Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              678
                          Total




                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                             333
                                      2




                                                                                               Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                North




                                                                                                                HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                   4
                    333


                                         331
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                      342


                                                                                                                     346
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                               Left
            345
           Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                             679
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0          0         0
                                                     Out          In         Total
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                    File Name           : 08-7200-004 HOPKINS-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                            Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                            Start Date          : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           HOPKINS CT.                              HOPKINS ST.                                                                                     HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                         Northbound                                    Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds             App. Total      Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       0     3     3            4       0      54     0     1                  54          0       0     0    0                 0      0       24     0     0         24              4            82            86
    07:15 AM       0       0     2     2            2       0      67     0     0                  67          0       0     0    0                 0      1       32     0     0         33              2           102           104
    07:30 AM       3       0     2     2            5       0      84     2     0                  86          0       0     0    0                 0      1       36     0     0         37              2           128           130
    07:45 AM       3       0     3     2            6       0     133     3     0                 136          0       0     0    0                 0      1       71     0     0         72              2           214           216
        Total      7       0    10     9           17       0     338     5     1                 343          0       0     0    0                 0      3      163     0     0        166             10           526           536

    08:00 AM        1      0       0     9          1       0     122        0           1        122          0       0          0    0            0      1      58     0     1          59             11           182           193
    08:15 AM        0      0       2     7          2       0     135        1           0        136          0       0          0    0            0      1      76     0     0          77              7           215           222
    08:30 AM        3      0       3     7          6       0     130        0           0        130          0       0          0    0            0      2      65     0     0          67              7           203           210
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    0
                    4



                    0
                    1
                    1
                    1
                    3

                    0
                    3
                    3
                    0
                    6

                   20
                 46.5
                  0.8
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   2
                                   7



                                   0
                                   1
                                   0
                                   0
                                   1

                                   1
                                   2
                                   1
                                   1
                                   5

                                  23
                                53.5
                                 0.9
                                         7
                                        30



                                         5
                                         4
                                         1
                                         7
                                        17

                                         6
                                         4
                                         1
                                         2
                                        13

                                        69
                                                    2
                                                   11




                                                    1
                                                    5
                                                    4
                                                    1
                                                   11

                                                   43
                                                     0
                                                     2
                                                     1
                                                     1
                                                     4




                                                   1.7
                                                            0
                                                            0



                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                                  101
                                                                  488



                                                                   78
                                                                   84
                                                                   70
                                                                   60
                                                                  292

                                                                   65
                                                                   75
                                                                   79
                                                                   74
                                                                  293

                                                                 1411
                                                                 98.6
                                                                 54.6
                                                                             0
                                                                             1



                                                                             0
                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             3

                                                                             2
                                                                             1
                                                                             3
                                                                             5
                                                                            11

                                                                             20
                                                                            1.4
                                                                            0.8
                                                                                     12
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         1



                                                                                         2
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         6

                                                                                         0
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         4
                                                                                                  101
                                                                                                  489



                                                                                                   78
                                                                                                   85
                                                                                                   71
                                                                                                   61
                                                                                                  295

                                                                                                   67
                                                                                                   76
                                                                                                   82
                                                                                                   79
                                                                                                  304

                                                                                                1431

                                                                                                 55.4
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           5



                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                           3

                                                                                                                                                           13
                                                                                                                                                          1.2
                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                                                                                                                  73
                                                                                                                                                                 272



                                                                                                                                                                  85
                                                                                                                                                                  78
                                                                                                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                                                                 323

                                                                                                                                                                  76
                                                                                                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                                                                  91
                                                                                                                                                                  92
                                                                                                                                                                 339

                                                                                                                                                                 1097
                                                                                                                                                                 98.8
                                                                                                                                                                 42.5
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               1



                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0

                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                          74
                                                                                                                                                                                         277



                                                                                                                                                                                          86
                                                                                                                                                                                          78
                                                                                                                                                                                          80
                                                                                                                                                                                          81
                                                                                                                                                                                         325

                                                                                                                                                                                          76
                                                                                                                                                                                          80
                                                                                                                                                                                          92
                                                                                                                                                                                          94
                                                                                                                                                                                         342

                                                                                                                                                                                       1110

                                                                                                                                                                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         32



                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                         23

                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         17

                                                                                                                                                                                                         82

                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      177
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      777



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      164
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      165
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      143
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      624

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      144
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      161
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      174
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      657

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2584

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     96.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    184
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    809



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    171
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    171
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    153
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    647

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    674

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2666




                                   HOPKINS CT.                                    HOPKINS ST.                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                          Northbound                                Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left          Thru   Right            App. Total       Left       Thru   Right       App. Total     Left   Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM            3         0          3         6            0          133            3             136          0          0            0            0        1      71             0                 72               214
        08:00 AM            1         0          0         1            0          122            0             122          0          0            0            0        1      58             0                 59               182
        08:15 AM            0         0          2         2            0         135             1             136          0          0            0            0        1      76             0                 77               215
        08:30 AM            3         0          3         6            0          130            0             130          0          0            0            0        2      65             0                 67               203
     Total Volume           7         0          8        15            0          520            4             524          0          0            0            0        5     270             0                275               814
      % App. Total       46.7         0       53.3                      0         99.2          0.8                          0          0            0                   1.8    98.2             0
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                                HOPKINS CT.
                                                                                                          Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                9     15       24


                                                                                                               8     0                   7
                                                                                                           Right Thru             Left




                                                                                                    Peak Hour Data


                                                                803
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                               277
                                                                       5




                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                           Left
                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.
                                                   HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                         275


                                                                              270
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                     520


                                                                                                                                                                                       524
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                              Left
                                                 528
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                               801
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            0         0          1       1                             0     65       2
                                                                                                            Left




                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                        Thru Right




                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                         67
                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            0      0      0                  0                        0     76      0    76    144
        02:15 PM            3         0          2       5                             0     75       1                  76                 0      0      0                  0                        0     80      0    80    161
        02:30 PM            3         0          1       4                             0     79       3                  82                 0      0      0                  0                        1     91      0    92    178
        02:45 PM            0         0          1       1                             0     74       5                  79                 0      0      0                  0                        2     92      0    94    174
     Total Volume           6         0          5      11                             0    293      11                 304                 0      0      0                  0                        3    339      0   342    657
      % App. Total       54.5         0       45.5                                     0   96.4     3.6                                     0      0      0                                         0.9   99.1      0
              PHF        .500      .000       .625    .550                          .000   .927   .550                  .927             .000   .000   .000                .000                   .375    .921   .000   .910   .923
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                             File Name       : 08-7200-004 HOPKINS-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                     Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                     Start Date      : 04/01/2008
                                                                                     Page No         :3

                                                         HOPKINS CT.
                                                     Out     In      Total
                                                       14      11       25


                                                           5     0               6
                                                       Right Thru         Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              640
                          Total




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            345
                                      3




                                                                                              Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                                North




                                                                                                               HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                                 11
                    342


                                         339
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                     293


                                                                                                                    304
                                                Unshifted
                                      0




                                                                                              Left
            298
           Out




                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                            649
                                                       Left  Thru Right
                                                           0     0    0


                                                            0         0         0
                                                     Out         In         Total
                                                                                          All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                               (916) 771-8700
                                                                                              F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                            File Name           : 08-7200-005 MONTEREY-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                    Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                    Start Date          : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                    Page No             :1


                                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         MONTEREY AVE.                              HOPKINS ST.                             CALIFORNIA ST.                                        HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                Northbound                                           Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds          App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                  App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       4       4    31    4            39       1      17     1     2               19     1     0      0     5                       1      11      10     1     3          22             14             81            95
    07:15 AM       1       2    45    8            48       2      13     3     4               18     2     2      1     4                       5      19      10     4     6          33             22            104           126
    07:30 AM       5       1    53   14            59       1      20     2     3               23     0     1      0     2                       1      13      29     1    10          43             29            126           155
    07:45 AM       7       2    82   15            91       2      33     8     5               43     1     1      1     6                       3      32      30     4     9          66             35            203           238
        Total     17       9   211   41           237       6      83    14    14              103     4     4      2    17                      10      75      79    10    28         164            100            514           614

    08:00 AM        9      2    112     10        123       0     32         3        2       35        0         0           0      8            0      27     35     2      14         64             34            222          256
    08:15 AM        7      4    107     15        118       1     39         5        6       45        2         1           1      2            4      23     33     2       6         58             29            225          254
    08:30 AM        6      6     77     12         89       0     36         2        3       38        2         2           1      9            5      25     30     4      10         59             34            191          225
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    8
                   30



                    3
                    7
                    8
                    7
                   25

                   11

                   12

                   35

                 107
                  10
                 3.6
                    7

                    5
                           7
                          19



                           2
                           8
                           5
                           5
                          20

                          11
                           6
                           8
                           9
                          34

                          82
                         7.7
                         2.8
                                 82
                                378



                                 33
                                 23
                                 31
                                 35
                                122

                                 39
                                 52
                                 44
                                 34
                                169

                                 880
                                82.3
                                29.5
                                        11
                                        48



                                        18
                                        17
                                        15
                                        15
                                        65

                                        17
                                        18
                                        13
                                        11
                                        59

                                       213
                                                   97
                                                  427



                                                   38
                                                   38
                                                   44
                                                   47
                                                  167

                                                   61
                                                   65
                                                   64
                                                   48
                                                  238

                                                1069

                                                 35.9
                                                            4
                                                            5



                                                            6
                                                            3
                                                            9
                                                            3
                                                           21

                                                            1
                                                            9
                                                           13
                                                            6
                                                           29

                                                           61
                                                          9.2
                                                            2
                                                                  51
                                                                 158



                                                                  44
                                                                  30
                                                                  30
                                                                  34
                                                                 138

                                                                  31
                                                                  33
                                                                  37
                                                                  39
                                                                 140

                                                                  519
                                                                 77.9
                                                                 17.4
                                                                             4
                                                                            14



                                                                             9
                                                                             1
                                                                             8
                                                                             4
                                                                            22

                                                                            12
                                                                             9
                                                                             6
                                                                             9
                                                                            36

                                                                             86
                                                                           12.9
                                                                            2.9
                                                                                      4
                                                                                     15



                                                                                      5
                                                                                      5
                                                                                      8
                                                                                      3
                                                                                     21

                                                                                     10
                                                                                      8
                                                                                      6
                                                                                     10
                                                                                     34

                                                                                     84
                                                                                              59
                                                                                             177



                                                                                              59
                                                                                              34
                                                                                              47
                                                                                              41
                                                                                             181

                                                                                              44
                                                                                              51
                                                                                              56
                                                                                              54
                                                                                             205

                                                                                             666

                                                                                            22.4
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        4



                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                       44

                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                       41

                                                                                                       93
                                                                                                     52.8
                                                                                                      3.1
                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                  4



                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                 24

                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                 27

                                                                                                                  59
                                                                                                                33.5
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                          24
                                                                                                                        13.6
                                                                                                                         0.8
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                    26



                                                                                                                                    36
                                                                                                                                    38
                                                                                                                                    32
                                                                                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                   119

                                                                                                                                    37
                                                                                                                                    26
                                                                                                                                    18
                                                                                                                                    19
                                                                                                                                   100

                                                                                                                                   262
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                 11



                                                                                                                                                 21
                                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                                                 78

                                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                                 21
                                                                                                                                                 23
                                                                                                                                                 77

                                                                                                                                                176

                                                                                                                                                 5.9
                                                                                                                                                         34
                                                                                                                                                        109



                                                                                                                                                         42
                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                                                                                                         29
                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                                                                                                                        126

                                                                                                                                                         29
                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                                                                                                                         25
                                                                                                                                                         26
                                                                                                                                                        108

                                                                                                                                                         418
                                                                                                                                                        39.1
                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                               140



                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                                                41
                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                                                41
                                                                                                                                                               168

                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                                52
                                                                                                                                                                46
                                                                                                                                                                56
                                                                                                                                                               196

                                                                                                                                                                583
                                                                                                                                                               54.6
                                                                                                                                                               19.6
                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                      10



                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                      22

                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                      25

                                                                                                                                                                       67
                                                                                                                                                                      6.3
                                                                                                                                                                      2.2
                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                              42



                                                                                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                              57

                                                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                                                                              58

                                                                                                                                                                             185
                                                                                                                                                                                         78
                                                                                                                                                                                        259



                                                                                                                                                                                         91
                                                                                                                                                                                         72
                                                                                                                                                                                         76
                                                                                                                                                                                         77
                                                                                                                                                                                        316

                                                                                                                                                                                         78
                                                                                                                                                                                         84
                                                                                                                                                                                         79
                                                                                                                                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                                                        329

                                                                                                                                                                                      1068

                                                                                                                                                                                       35.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                        34
                                                                                                                                                                                                       131



                                                                                                                                                                                                        77
                                                                                                                                                                                                        72
                                                                                                                                                                                                        71
                                                                                                                                                                                                        42
                                                                                                                                                                                                       262

                                                                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                                                                        61
                                                                                                                                                                                                        56
                                                                                                                                                                                                        54
                                                                                                                                                                                                       251

                                                                                                                                                                                                       744

                                                                                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      874



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      166
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      185
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      742

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      214
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      849

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2979

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1005



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   286
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   238
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   253
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1004

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   282
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   267
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1100

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3723




                                 MONTEREY AVE.                                    HOPKINS ST.                                     CALIFORNIA ST.                               HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                        Northbound                                  Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left          Thru   Right     App. Total          Left        Thru    Right App. Total           Left     Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM            9         2       112        123          0             32        3           35              0            0           0            0       27       35               2                64               222
        08:15 AM            7         4        107       118          1             39        5           45              2            1           1            4       23       33               2                58               225
        08:30 AM            6         6         77        89          0             36        2           38              2            2           1            5       25       30               4                59               191
        08:45 AM            8         7         82        97          4             51        4           59              0            1           1            2       34       42               2                78               236
     Total Volume          30        19        378       427          5            158       14          177              4            4           3           11      109      140              10               259               874
      % App. Total          7       4.4       88.5                  2.8           89.3      7.9                        36.4         36.4        27.3                  42.1     54.1             3.9
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                           MONTEREY AVE.
                                                                                                         Out    In    Total
                                                                                                          127    427     554


                                                                                                            378   19            30
                                                                                                          Right Thru          Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                799
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                       173
                                                                        109




                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                          HOPKINS ST.
                                                                                                                                                         14
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         259


                                                                              140
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                             158


                                                                                                                                                                               177
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                      Left
                                                 540
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                          5


                                                                                                                                                                                       350
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM           11        11         39      61                             1     31     12
                                                                                                           Left



                                                                                                           34
                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                  4



                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                      Thru Right




                                                                                                            CALIFORNIA ST.




                                                                                                                       44
                                                                                                                          4


                                                                                                                            45
                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                   11      5      3                 19                      29     42      7    78    202
        02:15 PM            7         6         52      65                             9     33      9                 51           8      6      0                 14                      28     52      4    84    214
        02:30 PM           12         8         44      64                            13     37      6                 56          11      8      2                 21                      25     46      8    79    220
        02:45 PM            5         9         34      48                             6     39      9                 54          11      8      4                 23                      26     56      6    88    213
     Total Volume          35        34        169     238                            29    140     36                205          41     27      9                 77                     108    196     25   329    849
      % App. Total       14.7      14.3         71                                  14.1   68.3   17.6                           53.2   35.1   11.7                                       32.8   59.6    7.6
              PHF        .729      .773       .813    .915                          .558   .897   .750                .915       .932   .844   .563                .837                   .931   .875   .781   .935   .965
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                       File Name    : 08-7200-005 MONTEREY-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 03/27/2008
                                                                               Page No      :3

                                                       MONTEREY AVE.
                                                     Out    In    Total
                                                      171    238     409


                                                         169   34      35
                                                       Right Thru    Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              679
                          Total




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                          240
                                   108




                                                                                            Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                             North




                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                               36
                    329


                                         196
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                   140


                                                                                                                  205
                                                Unshifted
                                     25




                                                                                            Left
            350
           Out




                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                              29


                                                                                                                          445
                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                         41   27     9


                                                       88       77     165
                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                        CALIFORNIA ST.
                                                                                         All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                              (916) 771-8700
                                                                                             F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                           File Name           : 08-7200-005 MONTEREY-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                   Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date          : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                   Page No             :1


                                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         MONTEREY AVE.                              HOPKINS ST.                            CALIFORNIA ST.                                        HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                Westbound                               Northbound                                           Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds         App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                  App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       0       1    40    6            41       0      16     0     4              16     0     0      1    1                         1     10      10     6     2          26             13             84            97
    07:15 AM       3       0    45   12            48       0      22     0     6              22     1     1      0    4                         2     12      17     1     6          30             28            102           130
    07:30 AM       6       2    62   27            70       0      25     1     7              26     0     2      0    1                         2     17      20     3     9          40             44            138           182
    07:45 AM      23       3   105   29           131       1      30     3     4              34     2     1      0    3                         3     25      38     6     7          69             43            237           280
        Total     32       6   252   74           290       1      93     4    21              98     3     4      1    9                         8     64      85    16    24         165            128            561           689

    08:00 AM        6      1     97     12        104       0     28        5        4       33        0         0           2      2            2      24     34     4       2         62             20            201           221
    08:15 AM        1      3    103     22        107       0     32        4        9       36        4         0           0      3            4      29     39     4       9         72             43            219           262
    08:30 AM        3      2     88     15         93       0     36        2        8       38        2         0           1      4            3      27     36     3       4         66             31            200           231
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    8
                   18



                    8
                    6
                    8
                    9
                   31

                    5
                    6
                    7
                    7
                   25

                  106
                 10.4
                  3.8
                           6
                          12



                           5
                           4
                           4
                           3
                          16

                           6
                           3
                           3
                           5
                          17

                          51
                           5
                         1.8
                                 57
                                345



                                 31
                                 38
                                 35
                                 28
                                132

                                 23
                                 35
                                 39
                                 38
                                135

                                 864
                                84.6
                                30.7
                                        10
                                        59



                                         9
                                         5
                                         5
                                         9
                                        28

                                         7
                                         4
                                         8
                                         4
                                        23

                                       184
                                                   71
                                                  375



                                                   44
                                                   48
                                                   47
                                                   40
                                                  179

                                                   34
                                                   44
                                                   49
                                                   50
                                                  177

                                                1021

                                                 36.3
                                                            1
                                                            1



                                                            6
                                                            5
                                                            0
                                                            7
                                                           18

                                                            6
                                                            7
                                                            1
                                                            1
                                                           15

                                                           35
                                                          6.2
                                                          1.2
                                                                  40
                                                                 136



                                                                  33
                                                                  35
                                                                  30
                                                                  23
                                                                 121

                                                                  38
                                                                  30
                                                                  36
                                                                  35
                                                                 139

                                                                  489
                                                                 86.1
                                                                 17.4
                                                                            1
                                                                           12



                                                                            7
                                                                            2
                                                                            4
                                                                            3
                                                                           16

                                                                            4
                                                                            1
                                                                            3
                                                                            4
                                                                           12

                                                                            44
                                                                           7.7
                                                                           1.6
                                                                                     4
                                                                                    25



                                                                                    12
                                                                                    10
                                                                                     8
                                                                                    12
                                                                                    42

                                                                                    10
                                                                                     8
                                                                                     1
                                                                                     3
                                                                                    22

                                                                                   110
                                                                                             42
                                                                                            149



                                                                                             46
                                                                                             42
                                                                                             34
                                                                                             33
                                                                                            155

                                                                                             48
                                                                                             38
                                                                                             40
                                                                                             40
                                                                                            166

                                                                                            568

                                                                                           20.2
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       6



                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                      38

                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                      20

                                                                                                      67
                                                                                                    42.7
                                                                                                     2.4
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                26

                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                17

                                                                                                                 47
                                                                                                               29.9
                                                                                                                1.7
                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                         25

                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                         10

                                                                                                                         43
                                                                                                                       27.4
                                                                                                                        1.5
                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                   17



                                                                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                   31
                                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                                   33
                                                                                                                                  122

                                                                                                                                   33
                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                                                                                   18
                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                   81

                                                                                                                                  229
                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                13



                                                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                                23
                                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                                89

                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                47

                                                                                                                                               157

                                                                                                                                                5.6
                                                                                                                                                        28
                                                                                                                                                       108



                                                                                                                                                        32
                                                                                                                                                        28
                                                                                                                                                        32
                                                                                                                                                        34
                                                                                                                                                       126

                                                                                                                                                        28
                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                                                                        29
                                                                                                                                                        27
                                                                                                                                                       114

                                                                                                                                                        412
                                                                                                                                                       38.6
                                                                                                                                                       14.6
                                                                                                                                                               36
                                                                                                                                                              145



                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                               41
                                                                                                                                                               43
                                                                                                                                                               39
                                                                                                                                                              168

                                                                                                                                                               47
                                                                                                                                                               42
                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                              179

                                                                                                                                                               577
                                                                                                                                                                54
                                                                                                                                                              20.5
                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                     15



                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                     22

                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                     26

                                                                                                                                                                      79
                                                                                                                                                                     7.4
                                                                                                                                                                     2.8
                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                                             24



                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                             38

                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                             54

                                                                                                                                                                            140
                                                                                                                                                                                        68
                                                                                                                                                                                       268



                                                                                                                                                                                        83
                                                                                                                                                                                        74
                                                                                                                                                                                        79
                                                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                                                       316

                                                                                                                                                                                        77
                                                                                                                                                                                        83
                                                                                                                                                                                        80
                                                                                                                                                                                        79
                                                                                                                                                                                       319

                                                                                                                                                                                     1068

                                                                                                                                                                                        38
                                                                                                                                                                                                       31
                                                                                                                                                                                                      125



                                                                                                                                                                                                       66
                                                                                                                                                                                                       53
                                                                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                                                                       65
                                                                                                                                                                                                      230

                                                                                                                                                                                                       70
                                                                                                                                                                                                       37
                                                                                                                                                                                                       44
                                                                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                                                                                                                                                                      180

                                                                                                                                                                                                      663

                                                                                                                                                                                                     19.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     185
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     805



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     183
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     170
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     739

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     180
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     178
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     709

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2814

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    80.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   216
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   930



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   258
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   229
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   235
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   969

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   239
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   207
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   889

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3477




                                 MONTEREY AVE.                                   HOPKINS ST.                                     CALIFORNIA ST.                               HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                     Westbound                                        Northbound                                  Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left         Thru   Right     App. Total          Left        Thru    Right App. Total           Left     Thru    Right           App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM           23         3       105        131          1            30        3           34              2            1            0           3      25        38               6                69               237
        08:00 AM             6        1         97       104          0            28        5           33              0            0            2           2      24        34               4                62               201
        08:15 AM             1        3        103       107          0            32        4           36              4            0            0           4      29        39               4                72               219
        08:30 AM             3        2         88        93          0            36        2           38              2            0            1           3      27        36               3                66               200
     Total Volume           33        9        393       435          1           126       14          141              8            1            3          12     105       147              17               269               857
      % App. Total         7.6      2.1       90.3                  0.7          89.4      9.9                        66.7          8.3           25                  39      54.6             6.3
                                                                                       FT
                                                                                                           MONTEREY AVE.
                                                                                                         Out    In    Total
                                                                                                          120    435     555


                                                                                                            393     9           33
                                                                                                          Right Thru          Left




                                                                                                   Peak Hour Data


                                                                796
                                                               Total




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                       183
                                                                        105




                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                          HOPKINS ST.
                                                                                                                                                         14
                                                   HOPKINS ST.

                                                         269


                                                                              147
                                                                       Right Thru
                                                        In
                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                             126


                                                                                                                                                                               141
                                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                          17




                                                                                                                                                      Left
                                                 527
                                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                          1


                                                                                                                                                                                       324
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 01:00 PM
        01:00 PM            8         5         31      44                             6     33      7
                                                                                                           Left



                                                                                                           27
                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                  8



                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                      Thru Right




                                                                                                            CALIFORNIA ST.




                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                          1


                                                                                                                            39
                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                   11      4      4                 19                      32     45      6    83    192
        01:15 PM            6         4         38      48                             5     35      2                 42           8     11     11                 30                      28     41      5    74    194
        01:30 PM            8         4         35      47                             0     30      4                 34           9      8      6                 23                      32     43      4    79    183
        01:45 PM            9         3         28      40                             7     23      3                 33          10      3      4                 17                      34     39      7    80    170
     Total Volume          31        16        132     179                            18    121     16                155          38     26     25                 89                     126    168     22   316    739
      % App. Total       17.3       8.9       73.7                                  11.6   78.1   10.3                           42.7   29.2   28.1                                       39.9   53.2      7
              PHF        .861      .800       .868    .932                          .643   .864   .571                .842       .864   .591   .568                .742                   .926   .933   .786   .952   .952
                                               All Traffic Data




                                               FT
                                                     (916) 771-8700
                                                    F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                       File Name    : 08-7200-005 MONTEREY-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 04/01/2008
                                                                               Page No      :3

                                                       MONTEREY AVE.
                                                     Out    In    Total
                                                      168    179     347


                                                         132   16      31
                                                       Right Thru    Left




                                                 Peak Hour Data



           RA              607
                          Total




                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                          224
                                   126




                                                                                            Right Thru
                                  Left




                                                             North




                                                                                                             HOPKINS ST.
              HOPKINS ST.




                                                                                               16
                    316


                                         168
                                  Right Thru
                   In




                                                Peak Hour Begins at 01:00 PM




                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                   121


                                                                                                                  155
                                                Unshifted
                                     22




                                                                                            Left
            291
           Out




                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                              18


                                                                                                                          379
                                                       Left Thru Right
                                                         38   26    25


                                                       56       89     145
                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                        CALIFORNIA ST.
                                                                                           All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                (916) 771-8700
                                                                                               F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                       File Name         : 08-7200-006 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           ALBINA AVE.                               HOPKINS CT.                              ALBINA AVE.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                               Northbound                                             Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds          App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       1     0     0              2      0       0     0     0                 0    0     1      2    0                         3       0       0     0    0              0              0               5          5
    07:15 AM       0       1     0     0              1      1       0     0     0                 1    0     1      0    0                         1       0       0     0    0              0              0               3          3
    07:30 AM       1       2     0     1              3      0       0     1     0                 1    0     0      1    0                         1       0       0     0    0              0              1               5          6
    07:45 AM       0       1     0     0              1      2       0     0     0                 2    0     6      1    0                         7       0       0     0    0              0              0              10         10
        Total      2       5     0     1              7      3       0     1     0                 4    0     8      4    0                        12       0       0     0    0              0              1              23         24

    08:00 AM        0      1       0      0          1       1      0       0          0           1        0         1           0     0           1       0          0    0     0           0              0               3          3
    08:15 AM        2      0       0      0          2       0      0       1          1           1        0         4           1     0           5       0          0    0     0           0              1               8          9
    08:30 AM        1      2       0      0          3       1      0       2          0           3        0         2           3     0           5       0          0    0     0           0              0              11         11
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    1
                    4



                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    6
                 10.2
                    4
                           4
                           7



                           6
                           5
                           8
                           5
                          24

                           7
                           3
                           4
                           3
                          17

                          53
                        89.8
                        35.3
                                   0
                                   0



                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                          0
                                          0



                                          1
                                          1
                                          0
                                          0
                                          2

                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0

                                          3
                                                     5
                                                    11



                                                     6
                                                     5
                                                     8
                                                     5
                                                    24

                                                     7
                                                     3
                                                     4
                                                     3
                                                    17

                                                    59

                                                  39.3
                                                             2
                                                             4



                                                             1
                                                             0
                                                             1
                                                             1
                                                             3

                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             6

                                                             16
                                                             64
                                                           10.7
                                                                    0
                                                                    0



                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0

                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0

                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                            0
                                                                            3



                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                            3
                                                                            0
                                                                            3

                                                                            0
                                                                            2
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                            2

                                                                            9
                                                                           36
                                                                            6
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       1



                                                                                       5
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       6

                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       1

                                                                                       8       25

                                                                                             16.7
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                   7



                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   6

                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                     13



                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                     18

                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                     11

                                                                                                                      50
                                                                                                                    75.8
                                                                                                                    33.3
                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                            24.2
                                                                                                                            10.7
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  4



                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                  5

                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        3

                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0

                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                   17



                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                   23

                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                   14

                                                                                                                                                   66

                                                                                                                                                   44
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0

                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                  3

                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                           11




                                                                                                                                                                                                           17

                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        150

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       89.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            53

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       64

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      167




                                   ALBINA AVE.                                  HOPKINS CT.                                           ALBINA AVE.
                                   Southbound                                    Westbound                                            Northbound                                   Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left        Thru   Right           App. Total          Left       Thru   Right        App. Total       Left   Thru    Right          App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM            0         1          0         1           1           0           0                1            0           1           0            1          0        0            0                    0                3
        08:15 AM            2         0          0         2           0           0           1                1            0           4           1            5          0        0            0                    0                8
        08:30 AM            1         2          0         3           1           0           2                3            0           2           3            5          0        0            0                    0               11
        08:45 AM            1         4          0         5           2           0           0                2            0           6           0            6          0        0            0                    0               13
     Total Volume           4         7          0        11           4           0           3                7            0          13           4           17          0        0            0                    0               35
      % App. Total       36.4      63.6          0                  57.1           0        42.9                             0        76.5        23.5                       0        0            0
                                                                           FT
                                                                                                    ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                             Out         In     Total
                                                                                               16          11      27


                                                                                                  0     7               4
                                                                                              Right Thru         Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data


                                                      0
                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                               Left
                                                                                                         North




                                                                                                                                                              8

                                                                                                                                                              HOPKINS CT.
                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                    0


                                                                    0
                                                          Right Thru
                                                  In
                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                       0


                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                      Unshifted
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                             Left
                                                    0
                                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                  4


                                                                                                                                                                             15
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 01:00 PM
        01:00 PM            0         6          0       6                 1      0      0
                                                                                              Left



                                                                                               11
                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                         Thru Right




                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                           13


                                                                                                           17

                                                                                                    ALBINA AVE.




                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                  4


                                                                                                                   28
                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                           0      6      2                   8                   0      0      0     0     15
        01:15 PM            0         5          0       5                 0      0      0                  0              0      4      1                   5                   0      0      0     0     10
        01:30 PM            0         8          0       8                 1      0      3                  4              0      5      0                   5                   0      0      0     0     17
        01:45 PM            0         5          0       5                 1      0      0                  1              0      3      2                   5                   0      0      0     0     11
     Total Volume           0        24          0      24                 3      0      3                  6              0     18      5                  23                   0      0      0     0     53
      % App. Total          0       100          0                        50      0     50                                 0   78.3   21.7                                       0      0      0
              PHF        .000      .750       .000    .750              .750   .000   .250               .375           .000   .750   .625                 .719               .000   .000   .000   .000   .779
                                 All Traffic Data




                                 FT
                                       (916) 771-8700
                                      F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                            File Name           : 08-7200-006 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                    Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                    Start Date          : 03/27/2008
                                                                    Page No             :3

                                              ALBINA AVE.
                                       Out         In     Total
                                         21          24      45


                                             0   24             0
                                         Right Thru      Left




                                   Peak Hour Data



           RA  0
           Total




                                                                                              Out
                       0




                                                                          Right Thru
                   Left




                                                 North




                                                                                         5

                                                                                         HOPKINS CT.
                                                                              3
             0


                             0
                   Right Thru
           In




                                  Peak Hour Begins at 01:00 PM




                                                                                             In
                                                                                    0


                                                                                                6
                                  Unshifted
                       0




                                                                          Left
             0
           Out




                                                                                                     Total
                                                                              3


                                                                                                        11
                                         Left  Thru Right
                                             0   18     5


                                         27          23      50
                                       Out         In     Total
                                              ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                        FT
                                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                 F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                                         File Name         : 08-7200-006 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 04/01/2008
                                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           ALBINA AVE.                               HOPKINS CT.                                ALBINA AVE.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                             Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds            App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       1       1     0     0             2       0       0     0     0                   0    0     1      0    1                         1       0       0     0     1              0             2             3             5
    07:15 AM       1       7     0     4             8       0       0     0     0                   0    0    17      1    0                        18       0       0     0     1              0             5            26            31
    07:30 AM       0      18     0     4            18       3       0     1     2                   4    0    30      3    0                        33       0       0     0     3              0             9            55            64
    07:45 AM       1      54     0     0            55       0       0     3     6                   3    0    94      5    0                        99       0       0     0     6              0            12           157           169
        Total      3      80     0     8            83       3       0     4     8                   7    0   142      9    1                       151       0       0     0    11              0            28           241           269

    08:00 AM        0      9       0      0          9       2      0        0           0           2        0         7           2     1           9       0          0    0      5           0              6              20         26
    08:15 AM        1      5       0      0          6       1      0        1           0           2        0         6           0     0           6       0          0    0      0           0              0              14         14
    08:30 AM        0      2       0      0          2       2      0        0           0           2        0         2           3     0           5       0          0    0      0           0              0               9          9
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    0
                    1



                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    0
                    2
                    2
                    0
                    4

                    8
                  4.8
                  1.8
                           2
                          18



                           4
                           1
                           2
                           2
                           9

                           5
                          23
                          15
                          10
                          53

                         160
                        95.2
                        36.6
                                   0
                                   0



                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                        10
                                          0
                                          0



                                          1
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          1

                                          0
                                          0
                                          1
                                          0
                                          1
                                                     2
                                                    19




                                                     5
                                                    25
                                                    17
                                                    10
                                                    57

                                                   168

                                                  38.4
                                                      4
                                                      1
                                                      2
                                                      2
                                                      9
                                                             2
                                                             7



                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             0
                                                             2
                                                             5

                                                             2
                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             2
                                                             7

                                                             22
                                                           64.7
                                                              5
                                                                    0
                                                                    0



                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0

                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0

                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                             0
                                                                             1



                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             2

                                                                             1
                                                                             0
                                                                             2
                                                                             2
                                                                             5

                                                                             12
                                                                           35.3
                                                                            2.7
                                                                                      2
                                                                                      8
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      0
                                                                                     11

                                                                                     22
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0



                                                                                         2
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         3

                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                 12

                                                                                                 34

                                                                                                7.8
                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                     8



                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                       19



                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                        5

                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                       46

                                                                                                                       212
                                                                                                                      90.6
                                                                                                                      48.5
                                                                                                                                22
                                                                                                                               9.4
                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    5



                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    4

                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          1



                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                          1

                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                     24




                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                     50

                                                                                                                                                    234

                                                                                                                                                   53.5
                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                                                                    0.2
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     5



                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                    16
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              15

                                                                                                                                                                                                              54

                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           119

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           437
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               51



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               89
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          57



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          31

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         134

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         491




                                   ALBINA AVE.                                    HOPKINS CT.                                           ALBINA AVE.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                            Northbound                                    Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total       Left          Thru   Right           App. Total          Left       Thru   Right        App. Total       Left    Thru    Right          App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
        07:15 AM             1        7          0         8           0             0           0                0            0          17            1           18         0         0            0                    0              26
        07:30 AM             0       18          0        18           3             0           1                4            0          30            3           33         0         0            0                    0              55
        07:45 AM             1       54          0        55           0             0           3                3            0          94            5           99         0         0            0                    0             157
        08:00 AM             0        9          0         9           2             0           0                2            0           7            2            9         0         0            0                    0              20
     Total Volume            2       88          0        90           5             0           4                9            0         148           11          159         0         0            0                    0             258
      % App. Total         2.2     97.8          0                  55.6             0        44.4                             0        93.1          6.9                      0         0            0
                                                                           FT
                                                                                                    ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                             Out         In     Total
                                                                                              152          90     242


                                                                                                  0   88                2
                                                                                              Right Thru         Left




                                                                                       Peak Hour Data


                                                      0
                                                  Total




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru



                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                               Left
                                                                                                         North




                                                                                                                                                                   HOPKINS CT.
                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                    0


                                                                    0
                                                          Right Thru
                                                  In
                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                        0


                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                      Unshifted
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                              Left
                                                    0
                                                  Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                   5


                                                                                                                                                                                  22
                   RA
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:00 PM to 02:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 02:00 PM
        02:00 PM            0         5          0       5                 2      0      1
                                                                                              Left



                                                                                               93
                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                         Thru Right
                                                                                                          148


                                                                                                          159
                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                    ALBINA AVE.




                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                 11


                                                                                                                  252
                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                           0     12       1                  13                       0      0      0     0     21
        02:15 PM            2        23          0      25                 2      0      0                  2              0     16       1                  17                       0      0      0     0     44
        02:30 PM            2        15          0      17                 1      0      2                  3              0      8       1                   9                       0      0      0     0     29
        02:45 PM            0        10          0      10                 2      0      2                  4              0     10       1                  11                       0      0      0     0     25
     Total Volume           4        53          0      57                 7      0      5                 12              0     46       4                  50                       0      0      0     0    119
      % App. Total          7        93          0                      58.3      0   41.7                                 0     92       8                                           0      0      0
              PHF        .500      .576       .000    .570              .875   .000   .625               .750           .000   .719   1.000                 .735                   .000   .000   .000   .000   .676
                                 All Traffic Data




                                 FT
                                       (916) 771-8700
                                      F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                            File Name           : 08-7200-006 ALBINA-HOPKINS-F-0401
                                                                    Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                    Start Date          : 04/01/2008
                                                                    Page No             :3

                                              ALBINA AVE.
                                       Out         In     Total
                                         51          57     108


                                             0   53             4
                                         Right Thru      Left




                                   Peak Hour Data



           RA  0
           Total




                                                                                              Out
                       0




                                                                          Right Thru
                   Left




                                                 North




                                                                                         8

                                                                                         HOPKINS CT.
                                                                              5
             0


                             0
                   Right Thru
           In




                                  Peak Hour Begins at 02:00 PM




                                                                                             In
                                                                                               12
                                                                                    0
                                  Unshifted
                       0




                                                                          Left
             0
           Out




                                                                                                     Total
                                                                              7


                                                                                                        20
                                         Left  Thru Right
                                             0   46     4


                                         60          50     110
                                       Out         In     Total
                                              ALBINA AVE.
                                                                                             All Traffic Data




                                                                         FT
                                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
                                                                                                 F (916) 786-2879
BERKELEY                                                                                                                         File Name         : 08-7200-003 SACRAMENTO-HOPKINS-F-0327
                                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 03/27/2008
                                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                                     HOPKINS ST.                             SACRAMENTO ST.                                      HOPKINS ST.
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                        Eastbound
Start Time       Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds            App. Total Left Thru Right Peds              App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
    07:00 AM       0       0     0    0               0     34      17     0     3                 51    17     0      9   0                    26       0      13    41     4          54              7           131           138
    07:15 AM       0       0     0    0               0     35      22     0     0                 57    27     0     10   1                    37       0      25    57     2          82              3           176           179
    07:30 AM       0       0     0    0               0     50      25     0     2                 75    23     0     17   0                    40       0      24    68     0          92              2           207           209
    07:45 AM       0       0     0    0               0     66      48     0     0                114    39     1     21   1                    61       0      41    87     1         128              2           303           305
        Total      0       0     0    0               0    185     112     0     5                297   106     1     57   2                   164       0     103   253     7         356             14           817           831

    08:00 AM        0      0       0      0           0     94     52        0           1      146       40        0       25      0           65       0      40     90     0        130               1         341           342
    08:15 AM        0      0       0      0           0     88     66        1           2      155       53        0       22      4           75       0      31     89     0        120               6         350           356
    08:30 AM        0      0       0      0           0     69     53        0           0      122       59        1       18      0           78       0      47     72     2        119               2         319           321
    08:45 AM
        Total

*** BREAK ***

    01:00 PM
    01:15 PM
    01:30 PM
    01:45 PM
        Total

    02:00 PM
    02:15 PM
    02:30 PM
    02:45 PM
        Total

  Grand Total
   Apprch %
     Total %
                    RA
                    0
                    0



                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0
                    0

                    0
                    0
                    0
                           0
                           0



                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0

                           0
                           0
                           0
                                   0
                                   0



                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0

                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                          0
                                          0



                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0

                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                                          0

                                          0
                                                      0
                                                      0



                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0

                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0

                                                      0

                                                      0
                                                            61
                                                           312



                                                            23
                                                            17
                                                            21
                                                            20
                                                            81

                                                            21
                                                            31
                                                            29
                                                            20
                                                           101

                                                            679
                                                           45.1
                                                           15.4
                                                                   70
                                                                  241



                                                                   66
                                                                   56
                                                                   53
                                                                   58
                                                                  233

                                                                   56
                                                                   56
                                                                   66
                                                                   59
                                                                  237

                                                                   823
                                                                  54.6
                                                                  18.6
                                                                             0
                                                                             1



                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             0

                                                                             1
                                                                             1
                                                                             2
                                                                             0
                                                                             4

                                                                              5
                                                                            0.3
                                                                            0.1
                                                                                      3
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      7
                                                                                      4
                                                                                     14

                                                                                      4
                                                                                     14
                                                                                      7
                                                                                      3
                                                                                     28

                                                                                     50
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         3
                                                                                                131
                                                                                                554



                                                                                                 89
                                                                                                 73
                                                                                                 74
                                                                                                 78
                                                                                                314

                                                                                                 78
                                                                                                 88
                                                                                                 97
                                                                                                 79
                                                                                                342

                                                                                               1507

                                                                                               34.1
                                                                                                          52
                                                                                                         204



                                                                                                          52
                                                                                                          54
                                                                                                          74
                                                                                                          59
                                                                                                         239

                                                                                                          63
                                                                                                          66
                                                                                                          67
                                                                                                          66
                                                                                                         262

                                                                                                         811
                                                                                                          69
                                                                                                        18.3
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1



                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                   0.2
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                            33
                                                                                                                            98



                                                                                                                            34
                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                            22
                                                                                                                            31
                                                                                                                           105

                                                                                                                            22
                                                                                                                            23
                                                                                                                            29
                                                                                                                            28
                                                                                                                           102

                                                                                                                           362
                                                                                                                          30.8
                                                                                                                           8.2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    4



                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    3

                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    5

                                                                                                                                   14
                                                                                                                                                85
                                                                                                                                               303



                                                                                                                                                86
                                                                                                                                                72
                                                                                                                                                96
                                                                                                                                                90
                                                                                                                                               344

                                                                                                                                                85
                                                                                                                                                89
                                                                                                                                                96
                                                                                                                                                94
                                                                                                                                               364

                                                                                                                                             1175

                                                                                                                                              26.6
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0

                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                53
                                                                                                                                                               171



                                                                                                                                                                60
                                                                                                                                                                59
                                                                                                                                                                59
                                                                                                                                                                51
                                                                                                                                                               229

                                                                                                                                                                57
                                                                                                                                                                55
                                                                                                                                                                55
                                                                                                                                                                68
                                                                                                                                                               235

                                                                                                                                                               738
                                                                                                                                                              42.4
                                                                                                                                                              16.7
                                                                                                                                                                       72
                                                                                                                                                                      323



                                                                                                                                                                       52
                                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                                       47
                                                                                                                                                                       55
                                                                                                                                                                      200

                                                                                                                                                                       66
                                                                                                                                                                       42
                                                                                                                                                                       62
                                                                                                                                                                       56
                                                                                                                                                                      226

                                                                                                                                                                     1002
                                                                                                                                                                     57.6
                                                                                                                                                                     22.7
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              2



                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                             10

                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                             12

                                                                                                                                                                             31
                                                                                                                                                                                       125
                                                                                                                                                                                       494



                                                                                                                                                                                       112
                                                                                                                                                                                       105
                                                                                                                                                                                       106
                                                                                                                                                                                       106
                                                                                                                                                                                       429

                                                                                                                                                                                       123
                                                                                                                                                                                        97
                                                                                                                                                                                       117
                                                                                                                                                                                       125
                                                                                                                                                                                       462

                                                                                                                                                                                     1741

                                                                                                                                                                                      39.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       27

                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                       45

                                                                                                                                                                                                       95

                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   341
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1351



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   287
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1087

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   286
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   310
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   298
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1168

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4423

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   97.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 341
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1360



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 294
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 253
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 289
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 278
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1114

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 293
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 293
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 323
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1213

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4518




                                                                                  HOPKINS ST.                                 SACRAMENTO ST.                                  HOPKINS ST.
                                   Southbound                                      Westbound                                    Northbound                                     Eastbound
       Start Time         Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left         Thru   Right        App. Total         Left   Thru   Right App. Total               Left    Thru    Right          App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
        08:00 AM            0         0          0         0          94            52           0          146            40         0          25            65       0       40           90                 130               341
        08:15 AM            0         0          0         0          88            66           1          155            53         0          22            75       0       31           89                 120               350
        08:30 AM            0         0          0         0          69            53           0          122            59         1          18            78       0       47           72                 119               319
        08:45 AM            0         0          0         0          61            70           0          131            52         0         33             85       0       53           72                 125               341
     Total Volume           0         0          0         0         312           241           1          554           204         1          98           303       0      171          323                 494              1351
      % App. Total          0         0          0                  56.3          43.5         0.2                       67.3       0.3        32.3                     0     34.6         65.4
                            Transportation Impacts of the Proposed
                      Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan




              T
 Appendix B: Pneumatic Hose Counts



AF
DR


                                                     May 19, 2008
DR
  AF
     T
                                                                                             FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008  Average Daily  City: Berkeley
                                                             Traffic Volumes               Project #: 08-7201-001                   Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008   Average Daily  City: Berkeley
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Volumes               Project #: 08-7201-001
 Location: Hopkins St btwn Gilman St & Albina Ave
                                            Prepared Day  1
                                                     by: Southland  Car Counters                                                     Location: Hopkins St btwn Gilman St & Albina Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                Prepared Day  2
                                                                                                                                                                                         by: Southland  Car Counters
AM Period NB         SB        EB        WB                 PM Period NB         SB        EB              WB                       AM Period NB         SB        EB        WB                 PM Period NB         SB        EB              WB
  00:00                        8             6                    12:00                    98              120                        00:00                         6               8                    12:00                 85              109
  00:15                        4             9                    12:15                    118             117                        00:15                         4               4                    12:15                 115             117
  00:30                        4             4                    12:30                    86              114                        00:30                         9               3                    12:30                 102             116
  00:45                        1     17      5     24      41     12:45                    102     404     88    439       843        00:45                         5       24      2     17      41     12:45                 132     434     110   452       886
  01:00                        2             5                    13:00                    110             112                        01:00                         2               3                    13:00                 105             112
  01:15                        4             1                    13:15                    115             124                        01:15                         5               2                    13:15                 110             105
  01:30                        1             7                    13:30                    104             120                        01:30                         5               3                    13:30                 96              106
  01:45                        6     13      1     14      27     13:45                    105     434     126   482       916        01:45                         0       12      2     10      22     13:45                 81      392     96    419       811
  02:00                        5             4                    14:00                    112             120                        02:00                         6               0                    14:00                 106             118
  02:15                        1             2                    14:15                    119             132                        02:15                         3               1                    14:15                 128             114
  02:30                        2             2                    14:30                    100             116                        02:30                         1               1                    14:30                 115             122
  02:45                        5     13      1     9       22     14:45                    128     459     134   502       961        02:45                         1       11      2     4       15     14:45                 118     467     115   469       936
  03:00                        2             3                    15:00                    119             119                        03:00                         1               0                    15:00                 125             119
  03:15                        3             3                    15:15                    139             123                        03:15                         1               0                    15:15                 132             158
  03:30                        2             1                    15:30                    138             150                        03:30                         1               3                    15:30                 127             131
  03:45                        1     8       0     7       15     15:45                    149     545     167   559      1104        03:45                         3       6       3     6       12     15:45                 139     523     144   552      1075
  04:00                        0             1                    16:00                    138             176                        04:00                         1               0                    16:00                 122             150
  04:15                        3             1                    16:15                    151             162                        04:15                         4               4                    16:15                 117             141
  04:30                        3             4                    16:30                    141             161                        04:30                         1               2                    16:30                 125             174
  04:45                        1     7       2     8       15     16:45                    138     568     157   656      1224        04:45                         1       7       5     11      18     16:45                 114     478     178   643      1121
  05:00                        2             3                    17:00                    141             171                        05:00                         7               7                    17:00                 149             196
  05:15                        7             6                    17:15                    171             177                        05:15                         5               6                    17:15                 133             159
  05:30                        8             4                    17:30                    155             205                        05:30                         7               3                    17:30                 148             219
  05:45                       10     27      5     18      45     17:45                    151     618     147   700      1318        05:45                         8       27      6     22      49     17:45                 144     574     220   794      1368
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
                     RA        9
                              18
                              26
                              33
                              43
                              65
                              88
                              112
                              140
                              148
                              122
                              142
                              139
                              126
                              103
                              90
                              100
                              78
                              97
                              104
                              93
                              103
                              88
                              99
                                     86




                                    308




                                    552




                                    458




                                    379




                                    383

                                    2251
                                             6
                                            11
                                            22
                                            20
                                            33
                                            37
                                            58
                                            53
                                            97
                                            111
                                            123
                                            133
                                            134
                                            104
                                            90
                                            86
                                            108
                                            105
                                            87
                                            90
                                            96
                                            109
                                            115
                                            109
                                                   59




                                                  181




                                                  464




                                                  414




                                                  390




                                                  429

                                                  2017
                                                           145




                                                           489




                                                          1016




                                                           872




                                                           769




                                                           812

                                                          4268
                                                                  18:00
                                                                  18:15
                                                                  18:30
                                                                  18:45
                                                                  19:00
                                                                  19:15
                                                                  19:30
                                                                  19:45
                                                                  20:00
                                                                  20:15
                                                                  20:30
                                                                  20:45
                                                                  21:00
                                                                  21:15
                                                                  21:30
                                                                  21:45
                                                                  22:00
                                                                  22:15
                                                                  22:30
                                                                  22:45
                                                                  23:00
                                                                  23:15
                                                                  23:30
                                                                  23:45
                                                                                           144
                                                                                           149
                                                                                           143
                                                                                           123
                                                                                           129
                                                                                           105
                                                                                           98
                                                                                           67
                                                                                           74
                                                                                           68
                                                                                           47
                                                                                           48
                                                                                           55
                                                                                           56
                                                                                           39
                                                                                           52
                                                                                           46
                                                                                           29
                                                                                           34
                                                                                           26
                                                                                           24
                                                                                           16
                                                                                           13
                                                                                           14
                                                                                                   559




                                                                                                   399




                                                                                                   237




                                                                                                   202




                                                                                                   135




                                                                                                    67

                                                                                                  4627
                                                                                                           184
                                                                                                           154
                                                                                                           156
                                                                                                           135
                                                                                                           145
                                                                                                           120
                                                                                                           101
                                                                                                           85
                                                                                                           71
                                                                                                           72
                                                                                                           64
                                                                                                           43
                                                                                                           37
                                                                                                           51
                                                                                                           48
                                                                                                           39
                                                                                                           40
                                                                                                           32
                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                           18
                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                 629




                                                                                                                 451




                                                                                                                 250




                                                                                                                 175




                                                                                                                 117




                                                                                                                  46

                                                                                                                 5006
                                                                                                                          1188




                                                                                                                           850




                                                                                                                           487




                                                                                                                           377




                                                                                                                           252




                                                                                                                           113

                                                                                                                          9633
                                                                                                                                      06:00
                                                                                                                                      06:15
                                                                                                                                      06:30
                                                                                                                                      06:45
                                                                                                                                      07:00
                                                                                                                                      07:15
                                                                                                                                      07:30
                                                                                                                                      07:45
                                                                                                                                      08:00
                                                                                                                                      08:15
                                                                                                                                      08:30
                                                                                                                                      08:45
                                                                                                                                      09:00
                                                                                                                                      09:15
                                                                                                                                      09:30
                                                                                                                                      09:45
                                                                                                                                      10:00
                                                                                                                                      10:15
                                                                                                                                      10:30
                                                                                                                                      10:45
                                                                                                                                      11:00
                                                                                                                                      11:15
                                                                                                                                      11:30
                                                                                                                                      11:45

                                                                                                                                    Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                                                                   20
                                                                                                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                                                   51
                                                                                                                                                                   48
                                                                                                                                                                   78
                                                                                                                                                                   110
                                                                                                                                                                   138
                                                                                                                                                                   118
                                                                                                                                                                   140
                                                                                                                                                                   128
                                                                                                                                                                   128
                                                                                                                                                                   104
                                                                                                                                                                   92
                                                                                                                                                                   112
                                                                                                                                                                   94
                                                                                                                                                                   95
                                                                                                                                                                   88
                                                                                                                                                                   97
                                                                                                                                                                   102
                                                                                                                                                                   84
                                                                                                                                                                   105
                                                                                                                                                                   92
                                                                                                                                                                            90




                                                                                                                                                                           287




                                                                                                                                                                           524




                                                                                                                                                                           436




                                                                                                                                                                           374




                                                                                                                                                                           383

                                                                                                                                                                           2181
                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                   28
                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                                                                                                                                                                                   49
                                                                                                                                                                                   76
                                                                                                                                                                                   157
                                                                                                                                                                                   85
                                                                                                                                                                                   98
                                                                                                                                                                                   109
                                                                                                                                                                                   121
                                                                                                                                                                                   96
                                                                                                                                                                                   90
                                                                                                                                                                                   86
                                                                                                                                                                                   91
                                                                                                                                                                                   98
                                                                                                                                                                                   90
                                                                                                                                                                                   85
                                                                                                                                                                                   91
                                                                                                                                                                                   95
                                                                                                                                                                                   104
                                                                                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                                                                                          56




                                                                                                                                                                                         207




                                                                                                                                                                                         449




                                                                                                                                                                                         393




                                                                                                                                                                                         364




                                                                                                                                                                                         390

                                                                                                                                                                                         1929
                                                                                                                                                                                                  146




                                                                                                                                                                                                  494




                                                                                                                                                                                                  973




                                                                                                                                                                                                  829




                                                                                                                                                                                                  738




                                                                                                                                                                                                  773

                                                                                                                                                                                                 4110
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                         19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                         20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                         21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                         22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                         23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                         23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               136
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       377




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       210




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       192




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       114




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               162
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               137
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     616




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     423




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     186




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4937
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1117




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               438




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               378




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               78

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9240
                                                                                                 Daily Totals                                                                                                                        Daily Totals
                                                                           NB         SB            EB            WB     Combined                                                                                NB       SB            EB            WB     Combined
                                                                                                  6878           7023     13901                                                                                                       6484           6866     13350
                                    AM                                                              PM                                                                   AM                                                             PM
Split %                             52.7%         47.3%   30.7%                                   48.0%          52.0%   69.3%      Split %                                53.1%         46.9%   30.8%                                46.6%          53.4%   69.2%
Peak Hour                           08:00         08:15   08:15                                    17:15         17:15    17:15     Peak Hour                              08:00         08:00   08:00                                 17:00         17:00    17:00
 Volume                             552           501     1052                                     621            713      1334      Volume                                524           449      973                                  574            794      1368
  P.H.F.                            0.93          0.93     0.96                                    0.91           0.87     0.93       P.H.F.                               0.94          0.71     0.82                                 0.96           0.90     0.93
                                                                                              FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008  Average Daily  City: Albany
                                                              Traffic Volumes                Project #: 08-7201-002              Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008   Average Daily  City: Albany
                                                                                                                                                                                               Traffic Volumes                Project #: 08-7201-002
 Location: Albina Ave btwn Hopkins St & Hopkins Court
                                           Prepared by: Southland Car Counters                                                    Location: Albina Ave btwn Hopkins St & Hopkins Court
                                                                                                                                                                            Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB          SB      EB         WB                 PM Period NB       SB            EB            WB                    AM Period NB          SB      EB         WB                 PM Period NB       SB            EB            WB
  00:00      1            0                                12:00    9           15                                                 00:00      1            0                                12:00    1            5
  00:15      0            0                                12:15   12           11                                                 00:15      0            0                                12:15    3           20
  00:30      0            0                                12:30    3            6                                                 00:30      0            0                                12:30    9            6
  00:45      0     1      0    0                   1       12:45    3    27      7    39                                66         00:45      0     1      0     0                  1       12:45   20    33      8    39                                72
  01:00      0            0                                13:00   10            9                                                 01:00      0            0                                13:00    8           5
  01:15      0            0                                13:15    5            6                                                 01:15      0            0                                13:15    4           7
  01:30      0            0                                13:30    5            3                                                 01:30      1            0                                13:30    0           2
  01:45      0     0      0    0                           13:45    6    26     10    28                                54         01:45      0     1      0     0                  1       13:45    3    15     5     19                                34
  02:00      0            0                                14:00    2           10                                                 02:00      1            1                                14:00    9            6
  02:15      0            0                                14:15    3           10                                                 02:15      0            0                                14:15   15           12
  02:30      0            0                                14:30    1            0                                                 02:30      0            0                                14:30   19           28
  02:45      0     0      0    0                           14:45    4    10      6    26                                36         02:45      0     1      0     1                  2       14:45    9    52     15    61                                113
  03:00      0            0                                15:00    3           5                                                  03:00      0            0                                15:00   11            9
  03:15      0            0                                15:15    3           5                                                  03:15      0            0                                15:15    7           15
  03:30      0            0                                15:30    3           5                                                  03:30      0            0                                15:30    9           16
  03:45      0     0      0    0                           15:45    4    13     4     19                                32         03:45      0     0      0     0                          15:45   14    41     26    66                                107
  04:00      0            0                                16:00    5            3                                                 04:00      0            0                                16:00   10            8
  04:15      0            0                                16:15    5            5                                                 04:15      0            0                                16:15   16           15
  04:30      0            0                                16:30    5            5                                                 04:30      0            0                                16:30    6            8
  04:45      0     0      0    0                           16:45    5    20     12    25                                45         04:45      0     0      0     0                          16:45    7    39     13    44                                83
  05:00      0            0                                17:00    4           12                                                 05:00      0            0                                17:00    9            7
  05:15      1            1                                17:15    1            3                                                 05:15      1            2                                17:15    6           12
  05:30      3            2                                17:30    5            6                                                 05:30      1            0                                17:30    6           22
  05:45      0     4      0    3                   7       17:45    3    13      4    25                                38         05:45      0     2      1     3                  5       17:45   20    41     25    66                                107
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
             0
             0
             1
             1
             3
             4
             1
             1
             7
             2
             6
             5
             11




             8
             2
             5
             2
             3
             6
             2
             7
              3
              6
              5
                   2




                   9




                   20




                   25




                   17




                   18

                   96
                          RA
                          0
                          0
                          1
                          1
                          1
                          2
                          1
                          4
                          4
                          2
                          1
                          3
                          7
                          2
                          2
                          0
                          7
                          0
                          3
                          0
                          2
                          4
                          6
                          5
                               2




                               8




                               10




                               11




                               10




                               17

                               61
                                                   4




                                                   17




                                                   30




                                                   36




                                                   27




                                                   35

                                                  157
                                                           18:00
                                                           18:15
                                                           18:30
                                                           18:45
                                                           19:00
                                                           19:15
                                                           19:30
                                                           19:45
                                                           20:00
                                                           20:15
                                                           20:30
                                                           20:45
                                                           21:00
                                                           21:15
                                                           21:30
                                                           21:45
                                                           22:00
                                                           22:15
                                                           22:30
                                                           22:45
                                                           23:00
                                                           23:15
                                                           23:30
                                                           23:45
                                                                    0
                                                                    2
                                                                    5
                                                                    3
                                                                    5
                                                                    2
                                                                    7
                                                                    1
                                                                    4
                                                                    4
                                                                    2
                                                                    5
                                                                    1
                                                                    3
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                         10




                                                                         15




                                                                         15




                                                                         5




                                                                         1




                                                                         3

                                                                        158
                                                                                4
                                                                                1
                                                                                4
                                                                                4
                                                                                3
                                                                                3
                                                                                5
                                                                                2
                                                                                6
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                4
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                2
                                                                                      13




                                                                                      13




                                                                                      10




                                                                                      4




                                                                                      4




                                                                                      4

                                                                                     210
                                                                                                                        23




                                                                                                                        28




                                                                                                                        25




                                                                                                                         9




                                                                                                                         5




                                                                                                                         7

                                                                                                                        368
                                                                                                                                   06:00
                                                                                                                                   06:15
                                                                                                                                   06:30
                                                                                                                                   06:45
                                                                                                                                   07:00
                                                                                                                                   07:15
                                                                                                                                   07:30
                                                                                                                                   07:45
                                                                                                                                   08:00
                                                                                                                                   08:15
                                                                                                                                   08:30
                                                                                                                                   08:45
                                                                                                                                   09:00
                                                                                                                                   09:15
                                                                                                                                   09:30
                                                                                                                                   09:45
                                                                                                                                   10:00
                                                                                                                                   10:15
                                                                                                                                   10:30
                                                                                                                                   10:45
                                                                                                                                   11:00
                                                                                                                                   11:15
                                                                                                                                   11:30
                                                                                                                                   11:45

                                                                                                                                 Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                              48
                                                                                                                                              86
                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                    6




                                                                                                                                                    74




                                                                                                                                                   105




                                                                                                                                                    14




                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                    15

                                                                                                                                                   228
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                                           14
                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                           57




                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                 37




                                                                                                                                                                 76




                                                                                                                                                                 20




                                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                 17

                                                                                                                                                                162
                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                   111




                                                                                                                                                                                   181




                                                                                                                                                                                    34




                                                                                                                                                                                    16




                                                                                                                                                                                    32

                                                                                                                                                                                   390
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          32




                                                                                                                                                                                                          12




                                                                                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                                                                                                                          13




                                                                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                                                                                                                                                          1

                                                                                                                                                                                                         292
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7    43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         663
                                                                                                  Daily Totals                                                                                                                     Daily Totals
                                                                         NB           SB             EB          WB   Combined                                                                            NB           SB             EB          WB   Combined
                                                                        254          271                                525                                                                              520          533                               1053
                                      AM                                                             PM                                                                 AM                                                            PM
Split %           61.1%       38.9%              29.9%                  42.9%        57.1%                            70.1%      Split %           58.5%        41.5%             37.0%                  44.0%        56.0%                            63.0%
Peak Hour         11:45       11:30               11:45                 12:15        12:00                             12:00     Peak Hour         07:30        07:30              07:30                 14:15        17:15                             17:30
 Volume            31          37                  68                     28           39                                66       Volume           160          100                260                     54           81                               124
  P.H.F.          0.65        0.62                0.71                   0.44         0.65                              0.69       P.H.F.          0.47         0.44               0.45                   0.68         0.81                              0.69
                                                                                            FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008              City: Albany
                                       Average Daily       Traffic Volumes                 Project #: 08-7201-003              Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008               City: Albany
                                                                                                                                                                      Average Daily       Traffic Volumes                  Project #: 08-7201-003
 Location: Albina Ave N/o Hopkins Court  Prepared by: Southland Car Counters                                                    Location: Albina Ave N/o Hopkins Court  Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB          SB       EB       WB               PM Period NB        SB            EB            WB                    AM Period NB          SB       EB       WB               PM Period NB        SB             EB            WB
  00:00      0            0                              12:00    8           14                                                 00:00      1            0                              12:00     2            4
  00:15      0            0                              12:15    8            4                                                 00:15      0            0                              12:15     6           20
  00:30      0            0                              12:30    3            9                                                 00:30      0            0                              12:30     8            5
  00:45      0     0      0    0                         12:45    5    24     10    37                                61         00:45      0     1      0     0                 1      12:45    15    31      6    35                                66
  01:00      0            0                              13:00    8           11                                                 01:00      0            0                              13:00    9            4
  01:15      0            0                              13:15    4            6                                                 01:15      0            0                              13:15    2            4
  01:30      0            0                              13:30    3            3                                                 01:30      1            0                              13:30    1            1
  01:45      0     0      0    0                         13:45    8    23      6    26                                49         01:45      0     1      0     0                 1      13:45    1     13     2     11                                24
  02:00      0            0                              14:00    2           4                                                  02:00      1            2                              14:00     5            3
  02:15      0            0                              14:15    3           8                                                  02:15      0            0                              14:15    15            9
  02:30      0            0                              14:30    6           2                                                  02:30      0            0                              14:30    16           33
  02:45      0     0      0    0                         14:45    1    12     1     15                                27         02:45      0     1      0     2                 3      14:45     9    45     13    58                                103
  03:00      0            0                              15:00    2           4                                                  03:00      0            0                              15:00    12            9
  03:15      0            0                              15:15    3           6                                                  03:15      0            0                              15:15    11           16
  03:30      0            0                              15:30    4           6                                                  03:30      0            0                              15:30     9           15
  03:45      0     0      0    0                         15:45    2    11     3     19                                30         03:45      0     0      0     0                        15:45    12    44     23    63                                107
  04:00      0            0                              16:00    0            6                                                 04:00      0            0                              16:00     6           12
  04:15      0            0                              16:15    2            7                                                 04:15      0            0                              16:15    13           14
  04:30      0            0                              16:30    3            4                                                 04:30      0            0                              16:30     6            6
  04:45      0     0      0    0                         16:45    2    7      16    33                                40         04:45      0     0      0     0                        16:45     8    33     11    43                                76
  05:00      0            0                              17:00    1           14                                                 05:00      0            0                              17:00     8            8
  05:15      1            1                              17:15    1            5                                                 05:15      2            3                              17:15     5           10
  05:30      1            1                              17:30    5            8                                                 05:30      0            0                              17:30     8           22
  05:45      0     2      0    2                  4      17:45    0    7       2    29                                36         05:45      1     3      1     4                 7      17:45    20    41     28    68                                109
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
             0
             0
             0
             1
             3
             2
             1
             1
             6
             1
             5
             4
             11




             8
             3
             4
             2
             2
             5
             4
             4
              3
              5
              3
                   1




                   7




                   16




                   22




                   17




                   15

                   80
                          RA
                          0
                          0
                          0
                          6
                          3
                          6
                          0
                          4
                          1
                          2
                          4
                          3
                          9
                          2
                          2
                          2
                          6
                          0
                          4
                          0
                          2
                          4
                          5
                          6
                               6




                               13




                               10




                               15




                               10




                               17

                               73
                                                  7




                                                  20




                                                  26




                                                  37




                                                  27




                                                  32

                                                 153
                                                         18:00
                                                         18:15
                                                         18:30
                                                         18:45
                                                         19:00
                                                         19:15
                                                         19:30
                                                         19:45
                                                         20:00
                                                         20:15
                                                         20:30
                                                         20:45
                                                         21:00
                                                         21:15
                                                         21:30
                                                         21:45
                                                         22:00
                                                         22:15
                                                         22:30
                                                         22:45
                                                         23:00
                                                         23:15
                                                         23:30
                                                         23:45
                                                                  4
                                                                  2
                                                                  0
                                                                  2
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  2
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  1
                                                                  1
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  1
                                                                  0
                                                                       8




                                                                       2




                                                                       1




                                                                       1




                                                                       0




                                                                       1

                                                                       97
                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              3
                                                                              4
                                                                              9
                                                                              0
                                                                              8
                                                                              2
                                                                              4
                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              5
                                                                              1
                                                                              3
                                                                              0
                                                                              1
                                                                              3
                                                                              0
                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                              2
                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                                                    9




                                                                                    19




                                                                                    11




                                                                                    5




                                                                                    5




                                                                                    2

                                                                                   210
                                                                                                                      17




                                                                                                                      21




                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                       6




                                                                                                                       5




                                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                      307
                                                                                                                                 06:00
                                                                                                                                 06:15
                                                                                                                                 06:30
                                                                                                                                 06:45
                                                                                                                                 07:00
                                                                                                                                 07:15
                                                                                                                                 07:30
                                                                                                                                 07:45
                                                                                                                                 08:00
                                                                                                                                 08:15
                                                                                                                                 08:30
                                                                                                                                 08:45
                                                                                                                                 09:00
                                                                                                                                 09:15
                                                                                                                                 09:30
                                                                                                                                 09:45
                                                                                                                                 10:00
                                                                                                                                 10:15
                                                                                                                                 10:30
                                                                                                                                 10:45
                                                                                                                                 11:00
                                                                                                                                 11:15
                                                                                                                                 11:30
                                                                                                                                 11:45

                                                                                                                               Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                            19
                                                                                                                                            38
                                                                                                                                            88
                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                  74




                                                                                                                                                 101




                                                                                                                                                  11




                                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                  8

                                                                                                                                                 209
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         1


                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                         52




                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                          5




                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                                                                                               45




                                                                                                                                                               65




                                                                                                                                                               14




                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                               6

                                                                                                                                                              143
                                                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                                119




                                                                                                                                                                                166




                                                                                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                                                 9




                                                                                                                                                                                 14

                                                                                                                                                                                352
                                                                                                                                                                                        18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                        19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                        20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                        21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                        22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                        23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                        23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                        23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                        23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       23




                                                                                                                                                                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                                                       3




                                                                                                                                                                                                       8




                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                                                                                                      258
                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                              10



                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5    41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   351
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      609
                                                                                                Daily Totals                                                                                                                    Daily Totals
                                                                       NB           SB             EB          WB   Combined                                                                           NB           SB             EB          WB   Combined
                                                                      177          283                                460                                                                             467          494                                961
                                      AM                                                           PM                                                                 AM                                                           PM
Split %           52.3%       47.7%             33.3%                 31.6%        68.4%                            66.7%      Split %           59.4%        40.6%            36.6%                  42.4%        57.6%                            63.4%
Peak Hour         11:30       11:45              11:45                12:00        16:45                             12:00     Peak Hour         07:15        07:15             07:15                 14:15        17:15                             17:30
 Volume            24          33                56                     24           43                                61       Volume           157           92               249                     52           79                               121
  P.H.F.          0.75        0.59               0.64                  0.69         0.67                              0.69       P.H.F.          0.45         0.44              0.44                   0.77         0.71                              0.63
                                                                                             FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008  Average Daily  City: Albany
                                                              Traffic Volumes               Project #: 08-7201-004              Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008   Average Daily  City: Albany
                                                                                                                                                                                              Traffic Volumes               Project #: 08-7201-004
 Location: Hopkins Court btwn Albina Ave & Hopkins
                                           PreparedSt
                                                    by: Southland Car Counters                                                   Location: Hopkins Court btwn Albina Ave & Hopkins
                                                                                                                                                                           PreparedSt
                                                                                                                                                                                    by: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB         SB       EB         WB                 PM Period NB       SB           EB            WB                    AM Period NB         SB       EB         WB                 PM Period NB       SB           EB            WB
  00:00      0           0                                 12:00    2           3                                                 00:00      0            0                                12:00    3           3
  00:15      0           0                                 12:15    6           1                                                 00:15      0            0                                12:15    3           1
  00:30      0           0                                 12:30    4           2                                                 00:30      0            0                                12:30    9           3
  00:45      0    0      0    0                            12:45    5    17     1    7                                 24         00:45      0     0      0    0                           12:45    6    21     3    10                                31
  01:00      0           0                                 13:00    2           1                                                 01:00      0            0                                13:00    2           3
  01:15      0           0                                 13:15    1           0                                                 01:15      1            0                                13:15    1           1
  01:30      0           0                                 13:30    1           2                                                 01:30      0            0                                13:30    1           0
  01:45      0    0      0    0                            13:45    2    6      0    3                                  9         01:45      0     1      0    0                   1       13:45    0    4      0    4                                  8
  02:00      0           0                                 14:00    1           2                                                 02:00      1            0                                14:00    5           5
  02:15      0           0                                 14:15    1           1                                                 02:15      0            0                                14:15    1           0
  02:30      0           0                                 14:30    6           3                                                 02:30      0            0                                14:30    1           4
  02:45      0    0      0    0                            14:45    3    11     2    8                                 19         02:45      0     1      0    0                   1       14:45    4    11     2    11                                22
  03:00      0           0                                 15:00    4           1                                                 03:00      0            0                                15:00    6           0
  03:15      0           0                                 15:15    6           4                                                 03:15      0            0                                15:15   16           4
  03:30      0           0                                 15:30    1           0                                                 03:30      0            0                                15:30    1           3
  03:45      0    0      0    0                            15:45    2    13     2    7                                 20         03:45      0     0      0    0                           15:45    0    23     1    8                                 31
  04:00      0           0                                 16:00    6           1                                                 04:00      0            0                                16:00    1           2
  04:15      0           0                                 16:15    1           0                                                 04:15      0            0                                16:15    7           4
  04:30      0           0                                 16:30    4           0                                                 04:30      0            0                                16:30    6           2
  04:45      0    0      0    0                            16:45    1    12     4    5                                 17         04:45      0     0      0    0                           16:45    6    20     2    10                                30
  05:00      0           0                                 17:00    5           3                                                 05:00      1            0                                17:00    1           2
  05:15      0           1                                 17:15    3           3                                                 05:15      0            1                                17:15    7           5
  05:30      1           1                                 17:30    3           3                                                 05:30      0            0                                17:30   11           3
  05:45      0    1      0    2                    3       17:45    2    13     3    12                                25         05:45      0     1      0    1                   2       17:45    3    22     1    11                                33
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
             0
             0
             0
             0
             0
             2
             0
             1
             1
             1
             2
             2
             2
             5
             1
             0
             4
             1
             2
             1
             0
             4
             0
             2
                  0




                  3




                  6




                  8




                  8




                  6

                  32
                         RA
                         0
                         0
                         0
                         1
                         1
                         3
                         0
                         3
                         1
                         3
                         2
                         5
                         2
                         2
                         3
                         2
                         4
                         1
                         1
                         2
                         0
                         0
                         3
                         3
                              1




                              7




                              11




                              9




                              8




                              6

                              44
                                                   1




                                                   10




                                                   17




                                                   17




                                                   16




                                                   12

                                                   76
                                                           18:00
                                                           18:15
                                                           18:30
                                                           18:45
                                                           19:00
                                                           19:15
                                                           19:30
                                                           19:45
                                                           20:00
                                                           20:15
                                                           20:30
                                                           20:45
                                                           21:00
                                                           21:15
                                                           21:30
                                                           21:45
                                                           22:00
                                                           22:15
                                                           22:30
                                                           22:45
                                                           23:00
                                                           23:15
                                                           23:30
                                                           23:45
                                                                    1
                                                                    2
                                                                    3
                                                                    0
                                                                    3
                                                                    2
                                                                    3
                                                                    2
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
                                                                    2
                                                                    1
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    3
                                                                    2
                                                                    0
                                                                    1
                                                                    1
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                    2
                                                                         6




                                                                         10




                                                                         4




                                                                         5




                                                                         4




                                                                         2

                                                                        103
                                                                                2
                                                                                2
                                                                                3
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                2
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                2
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                     9




                                                                                     4




                                                                                     3




                                                                                     4




                                                                                     0




                                                                                     0

                                                                                     62
                                                                                                                       15




                                                                                                                       14




                                                                                                                        7




                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                        2

                                                                                                                       165
                                                                                                                                  06:00
                                                                                                                                  06:15
                                                                                                                                  06:30
                                                                                                                                  06:45
                                                                                                                                  07:00
                                                                                                                                  07:15
                                                                                                                                  07:30
                                                                                                                                  07:45
                                                                                                                                  08:00
                                                                                                                                  08:15
                                                                                                                                  08:30
                                                                                                                                  08:45
                                                                                                                                  09:00
                                                                                                                                  09:15
                                                                                                                                  09:30
                                                                                                                                  09:45
                                                                                                                                  10:00
                                                                                                                                  10:15
                                                                                                                                  10:30
                                                                                                                                  10:45
                                                                                                                                  11:00
                                                                                                                                  11:15
                                                                                                                                  11:30
                                                                                                                                  11:45

                                                                                                                                Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                                   16

                                                                                                                                                   55
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                               13




                                                                                                                                                               15




                                                                                                                                                               8




                                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                               9

                                                                                                                                                               58
                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                   20




                                                                                                                                                                                   24




                                                                                                                                                                                   17




                                                                                                                                                                                   22




                                                                                                                                                                                   25

                                                                                                                                                                                  113
                                                                                                                                                                                           18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                           19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                           20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                           21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                           22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                           23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                           23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                           23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                           23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         11




                                                                                                                                                                                                         6




                                                                                                                                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                                                                         5




                                                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                                                                        129
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       205
                                                                                                 Daily Totals                                                                                                                    Daily Totals
                                                                         NB          SB             EB          WB   Combined                                                                            NB          SB             EB          WB   Combined
                                                                        135         106                                241                                                                              184         134                                318
                                     AM                                                             PM                                                                AM                                                            PM
Split %          42.1%       57.9%               31.5%                  62.4%       37.6%                            68.5%      Split %           48.7%       51.3%              35.5%                  62.9%       37.1%                            64.5%
Peak Hour        11:45       08:15                11:45                 14:30       16:45                             14:30     Peak Hour         11:30       07:45               11:30                 17:15       16:45                             17:15
 Volume           14          12                   23                     19          13                                29       Volume            20          18                  31                     28          12                                40
  P.H.F.         0.58        0.60                 0.82                   0.71        0.81                              0.73       P.H.F.          0.45        0.75                0.52                   0.55        0.60                              0.71
                                                                                               FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008 Average Daily City: Berkeley
                                                           Traffic Volumes                    Project #: 08-7201-005              Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008  Average Daily City: Berkeley
                                                                                                                                                                                             Traffic Volumes                    Project #: 08-7201-005
 Location: Saramento St btwn Hopkins St & Ada St
                                          Prepared by: Southland Car Counters                                                      Location: Saramento St btwn Hopkins St & Ada St
                                                                                                                                                                            Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB         SB       EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB              EB            WB                    AM Period NB         SB       EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB              EB            WB
  00:00       6            7                              12:00    80           78                                                  00:00      9             7                              12:00    91           62
  00:15      11            9                              12:15    76           74                                                  00:15      6             2                              12:15    77           76
  00:30       7            0                              12:30    88           63                                                  00:30      1             3                              12:30    76           62
  00:45       5    29      2     18               47      12:45    74   318     62    277                                595        00:45      2     18      1     13               31      12:45    67   311     90    290                                601
  01:00      4             1                              13:00   80            60                                                  01:00      2             1                              13:00    88           67
  01:15      1             2                              13:15   85            75                                                  01:15      6             4                              13:15    59           64
  01:30      4             2                              13:30   80            65                                                  01:30      0             5                              13:30    79           65
  01:45      1     10      5     10               20      13:45   100   345     71    271                                616        01:45      1     9       0     10               19      13:45    70   296     46    242                                538
  02:00      3             2                              14:00   93            84                                                  02:00      0             0                              14:00    97           62
  02:15      4             0                              14:15   85            79                                                  02:15      1             2                              14:15    77           82
  02:30      2             1                              14:30   99            74                                                  02:30      0             1                              14:30    77           87
  02:45      0     9       2     5                14      14:45   103   380     86    323                                703        02:45      1     2       1     4                 6      14:45    75   326     70    301                                627
  03:00      2             2                              15:00   90            78                                                  03:00      2             1                              15:00   78            75
  03:15      2             1                              15:15   93            94                                                  03:15      0             1                              15:15   119           91
  03:30      0             1                              15:30   106           100                                                 03:30      2             0                              15:30   111           92
  03:45      1     5       1     5                10      15:45   131   420     88    360                                780        03:45      1     5       2     4                 9      15:45   126   434     94    352                                786
  04:00      0             0                              16:00   160           83                                                  04:00      0             3                              16:00   146           94
  04:15      0             0                              16:15   135           95                                                  04:15      1             2                              16:15   122           83
  04:30      2             3                              16:30   137           79                                                  04:30      1             1                              16:30   150           93
  04:45      3     5       4     7                12      16:45   152   584     101   358                                942        04:45      1     3       3     9                12      16:45   142   560     85    355                                915
  05:00      0             5                              17:00   182           95                                                  05:00      2             4                              17:00   191           103
  05:15      8             9                              17:15   164           115                                                 05:15      1             4                              17:15   174           81
  05:30      0            10                              17:30   209           135                                                 05:30      3            11                              17:30   208           123
  05:45      3     11     10     34               45      17:45   169   724     126   471                               1195        05:45      3     9       9     28               37      17:45   200   773     129   436                               1209
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
              7
              7
             12
             12
             21
             30
             44
             44
             70
             72
             77
             89
             91
             75
             63
             56
             42
             65
             61
             61
             61
             61
             89
             71
                   38




                  139




                  308




                  285




                  229




                  282

                  1350
                           RA
                          15
                          23
                          30
                          37
                          73
                          76
                          100
                          125
                          164
                          207
                          170
                          138
                          139
                          126
                          82
                          89
                          114
                          82
                          70
                          65
                          74
                          75
                          75
                          67
                                105




                                374




                                679




                                436




                                331




                                291

                                2295
                                                  143




                                                  513




                                                  987




                                                  721




                                                  560




                                                  573

                                                 3645
                                                          18:00
                                                          18:15
                                                          18:30
                                                          18:45
                                                          19:00
                                                          19:15
                                                          19:30
                                                          19:45
                                                          20:00
                                                          20:15
                                                          20:30
                                                          20:45
                                                          21:00
                                                          21:15
                                                          21:30
                                                          21:45
                                                          22:00
                                                          22:15
                                                          22:30
                                                          22:45
                                                          23:00
                                                          23:15
                                                          23:30
                                                          23:45
                                                                  180
                                                                  175
                                                                  164
                                                                  132
                                                                  132
                                                                  106
                                                                  93
                                                                  60
                                                                   72
                                                                   69
                                                                   67
                                                                   41
                                                                   32
                                                                   45
                                                                   50
                                                                   43
                                                                   40
                                                                   33
                                                                   23
                                                                   23
                                                                   14
                                                                   19
                                                                   18
                                                                    8
                                                                        651




                                                                        391




                                                                        249




                                                                        170




                                                                        119




                                                                         59

                                                                        4410
                                                                                106
                                                                                122
                                                                                103
                                                                                82
                                                                                84
                                                                                84
                                                                                60
                                                                                42
                                                                                60
                                                                                47
                                                                                42
                                                                                32
                                                                                43
                                                                                42
                                                                                32
                                                                                35
                                                                                34
                                                                                20
                                                                                24
                                                                                19
                                                                                14
                                                                                 9
                                                                                 7
                                                                                 1
                                                                                      413




                                                                                      270




                                                                                      181




                                                                                      152




                                                                                       97




                                                                                       31

                                                                                      3204
                                                                                                                        1064




                                                                                                                         661




                                                                                                                         430




                                                                                                                         322




                                                                                                                         216




                                                                                                                         90

                                                                                                                        7614
                                                                                                                                    06:00
                                                                                                                                    06:15
                                                                                                                                    06:30
                                                                                                                                    06:45
                                                                                                                                    07:00
                                                                                                                                    07:15
                                                                                                                                    07:30
                                                                                                                                    07:45
                                                                                                                                    08:00
                                                                                                                                    08:15
                                                                                                                                    08:30
                                                                                                                                    08:45
                                                                                                                                    09:00
                                                                                                                                    09:15
                                                                                                                                    09:30
                                                                                                                                    09:45
                                                                                                                                    10:00
                                                                                                                                    10:15
                                                                                                                                    10:30
                                                                                                                                    10:45
                                                                                                                                    11:00
                                                                                                                                    11:15
                                                                                                                                    11:30
                                                                                                                                    11:45

                                                                                                                                  Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                                               31
                                                                                                                                               33
                                                                                                                                               30
                                                                                                                                               59
                                                                                                                                               97
                                                                                                                                               51
                                                                                                                                               53
                                                                                                                                               75
                                                                                                                                               88
                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                               56
                                                                                                                                               69
                                                                                                                                               72
                                                                                                                                               82
                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                               69
                                                                                                                                               67
                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                               81
                                                                                                                                               67
                                                                                                                                                     49




                                                                                                                                                    153




                                                                                                                                                    276




                                                                                                                                                    279




                                                                                                                                                    293




                                                                                                                                                    285

                                                                                                                                                    1381
                                                                                                                                                            16
                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                                                            41
                                                                                                                                                            66
                                                                                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                            97
                                                                                                                                                            110
                                                                                                                                                            159
                                                                                                                                                            152
                                                                                                                                                            155
                                                                                                                                                            164
                                                                                                                                                            110
                                                                                                                                                            114
                                                                                                                                                            94
                                                                                                                                                            93
                                                                                                                                                            90
                                                                                                                                                            89
                                                                                                                                                            64
                                                                                                                                                            67
                                                                                                                                                            60
                                                                                                                                                            56
                                                                                                                                                            68
                                                                                                                                                            64
                                                                                                                                                                  106




                                                                                                                                                                  343




                                                                                                                                                                  630




                                                                                                                                                                  411




                                                                                                                                                                  310




                                                                                                                                                                  248

                                                                                                                                                                  2116
                                                                                                                                                                                    155




                                                                                                                                                                                    496




                                                                                                                                                                                    906




                                                                                                                                                                                    690




                                                                                                                                                                                    603




                                                                                                                                                                                    533

                                                                                                                                                                                   3497
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                            23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                    163
                                                                                                                                                                                                    146
                                                                                                                                                                                                    171
                                                                                                                                                                                                    129
                                                                                                                                                                                                    141
                                                                                                                                                                                                    122
                                                                                                                                                                                                    86
                                                                                                                                                                                                    54
                                                                                                                                                                                                     64
                                                                                                                                                                                                     64
                                                                                                                                                                                                     52
                                                                                                                                                                                                     45
                                                                                                                                                                                                     49
                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                                                                                                     51
                                                                                                                                                                                                     36
                                                                                                                                                                                                     23
                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                          609




                                                                                                                                                                                                          403




                                                                                                                                                                                                          225




                                                                                                                                                                                                          186




                                                                                                                                                                                                           97




                                                                                                                                                                                                           49

                                                                                                                                                                                                          4269
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  123
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        317




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        131




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        130




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         40

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3061
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           720




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           356




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           316




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           164




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           89

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7330
                                                                                                   Daily Totals                                                                                                                      Daily Totals
                                                                         NB            SB             EB          WB   Combined                                                                            NB            SB             EB          WB   Combined
                                                                        5760          5499                              11259                                                                             5650          5177                              10827
                                        AM                                                            PM                                                                  AM                                                            PM
Split %           37.0%         63.0%           32.4%                   57.9%         42.1%                            67.6%      Split %           39.5%         60.5%           32.3%                   58.2%         41.8%                            67.7%
Peak Hour         08:30         08:00            08:00                  17:30         17:30                             17:30     Peak Hour         11:30         08:00            08:00                  17:00         17:30                             17:00
 Volume           332           679               987                    733           489                               1222      Volume           316           630               906                    773           483                               1209
  P.H.F.          0.91          0.82              0.88                   0.88          0.91                              0.89       P.H.F.          0.87          0.96              0.88                   0.94          0.94                              0.91
                                                                                         FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008 Average Daily City: Berkeley
                                                           Traffic Volumes              Project #: 08-7201-006                 Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008  Average Daily City: Berkeley
                                                                                                                                                                                          Traffic Volumes              Project #: 08-7201-006
 Location: Hopkins St btwn Monterey Ave & Prepared
                                          McGee Aveby: Southland Car Counters                                                   Location: Hopkins St btwn Monterey Ave & Prepared
                                                                                                                                                                         McGee Aveby: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB         SB       EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB             WB                      AM Period NB         SB       EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB              WB
  00:00                        4           2                    12:00                   46             42                        00:00                         2              2                    12:00               50              35
  00:15                        1           0                    12:15                   65             46                        00:15                         0              4                    12:15               54              48
  00:30                        3           0                    12:30                   50             41                        00:30                         2              5                    12:30               54              47
  00:45                        1    9      1     3       12     12:45                   46     207     39   168       375        00:45                         1       5      2     13      18     12:45               74      232     42   172       404
  01:00                        2           2                    13:00                   60             65                        01:00                         1              1                    13:00               70              38
  01:15                        0           0                    13:15                   52             63                        01:15                         1              2                    13:15               67              48
  01:30                        0           4                    13:30                   47             34                        01:30                         2              1                    13:30               58              46
  01:45                        1    3      0     6        9     13:45                   42     201     48   210       411        01:45                         1       5      0     4        9     13:45               60      255     38   170       425
  02:00                        2           0                    14:00                   43             40                        02:00                         1              3                    14:00               57              36
  02:15                        1           0                    14:15                   58             47                        02:15                         0              2                    14:15               52              32
  02:30                        0           1                    14:30                   57             57                        02:30                         2              1                    14:30               37              41
  02:45                        1    4      1     2        6     14:45                   56     214     56   200       414        02:45                         1       4      0     6       10     14:45               39      185     46   155       340
  03:00                        1           1                    15:00                   62             54                        03:00                         0              0                    15:00               41              45
  03:15                        1           1                    15:15                   60             64                        03:15                         0              0                    15:15               49              49
  03:30                        0           1                    15:30                   53             60                        03:30                         1              0                    15:30               52              47
  03:45                        0    2      0     3        5     15:45                   52     227     67   245       472        03:45                         1       2      1     1        3     15:45               40      182     48   189       371
  04:00                        0           0                    16:00                   73             69                        04:00                         0              0                    16:00               21              62
  04:15                        1           0                    16:15                   64             56                        04:15                         1              1                    16:15               62              59
  04:30                        2           2                    16:30                   73             50                        04:30                         1              0                    16:30               130             40
  04:45                        0    3      0     2        5     16:45                   75     285     62   237       522        04:45                         2       4      1     2        6     16:45               119     332     36   197       529
  05:00                        0           2                    17:00                   60             56                        05:00                         2              1                    17:00               104             46
  05:15                        1           2                    17:15                   66             55                        05:15                         8              2                    17:15               126             45
  05:30                        0           2                    17:30                   67             61                        05:30                         0              0                    17:30               121             51
  05:45                        2    3      4     10      13     17:45                   66     259     48   220       479        05:45                         5       15     3     6       21     17:45               115     466     46   188       654
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
                     RA        1
                               5
                               8
                               6
                               8
                              11
                              18
                              39
                              50
                              47
                              53
                              35
                              45
                              53
                              32
                              37
                              36
                              37
                              45
                              54
                              41
                              42
                              45
                              50
                                    20




                                    76




                                   185




                                   167




                                   172




                                   178

                                   822
                                           1
                                           3
                                           7
                                           9
                                           12
                                           20
                                           20
                                           29
                                           55
                                           44
                                           54
                                           44
                                           57
                                           51
                                           31
                                           44
                                           44
                                           47
                                           37
                                           36
                                           48
                                           35
                                           35
                                           65
                                                 20




                                                 81




                                                197




                                                183




                                                164




                                                183

                                                854
                                                         40




                                                         157




                                                         382




                                                         350




                                                         336




                                                         361

                                                        1676
                                                                18:00
                                                                18:15
                                                                18:30
                                                                18:45
                                                                19:00
                                                                19:15
                                                                19:30
                                                                19:45
                                                                20:00
                                                                20:15
                                                                20:30
                                                                20:45
                                                                21:00
                                                                21:15
                                                                21:30
                                                                21:45
                                                                22:00
                                                                22:15
                                                                22:30
                                                                22:45
                                                                23:00
                                                                23:15
                                                                23:30
                                                                23:45
                                                                                        72
                                                                                        73
                                                                                        48
                                                                                        61
                                                                                        56
                                                                                        42
                                                                                        43
                                                                                        34
                                                                                        34
                                                                                        26
                                                                                        16
                                                                                        19
                                                                                        20
                                                                                        18
                                                                                        11
                                                                                        18
                                                                                        17
                                                                                         9
                                                                                        12
                                                                                         8
                                                                                         6
                                                                                        11
                                                                                         4
                                                                                         9
                                                                                               254




                                                                                               175




                                                                                                95




                                                                                                67




                                                                                                46




                                                                                                30

                                                                                              2060
                                                                                                       66
                                                                                                       63
                                                                                                       44
                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                       54
                                                                                                       54
                                                                                                       32
                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                       31
                                                                                                       35
                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                       17


                                                                                                       15



                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                        8

                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                            213




                                                                                                            165




                                                                                                            102




                                                                                                             66




                                                                                                             39




                                                                                                             16

                                                                                                            1881
                                                                                                                      467




                                                                                                                      340




                                                                                                                      197




                                                                                                                      133




                                                                                                                      85




                                                                                                                      46

                                                                                                                     3941
                                                                                                                                 06:00
                                                                                                                                 06:15
                                                                                                                                 06:30
                                                                                                                                 06:45
                                                                                                                                 07:00
                                                                                                                                 07:15
                                                                                                                                 07:30
                                                                                                                                 07:45
                                                                                                                                 08:00
                                                                                                                                 08:15
                                                                                                                                 08:30
                                                                                                                                 08:45
                                                                                                                                 09:00
                                                                                                                                 09:15
                                                                                                                                 09:30
                                                                                                                                 09:45
                                                                                                                                 10:00
                                                                                                                                 10:15
                                                                                                                                 10:30
                                                                                                                                 10:45
                                                                                                                                 11:00
                                                                                                                                 11:15
                                                                                                                                 11:30
                                                                                                                                 11:45

                                                                                                                               Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                                                              27
                                                                                                                                                              32
                                                                                                                                                              40
                                                                                                                                                              49
                                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                                              58
                                                                                                                                                              46
                                                                                                                                                              62
                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                                              37
                                                                                                                                                              37
                                                                                                                                                              39
                                                                                                                                                              35
                                                                                                                                                              31
                                                                                                                                                              39
                                                                                                                                                              47
                                                                                                                                                              49
                                                                                                                                                                       25




                                                                                                                                                                       90




                                                                                                                                                                      188




                                                                                                                                                                      185




                                                                                                                                                                      148




                                                                                                                                                                      166

                                                                                                                                                                      837
                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                              69
                                                                                                                                                                              39
                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                              24
                                                                                                                                                                              47
                                                                                                                                                                              44
                                                                                                                                                                              38
                                                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                                                              46
                                                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                                                                                              30
                                                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                                                                                              38
                                                                                                                                                                              34
                                                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                                    27




                                                                                                                                                                                    77




                                                                                                                                                                                   168




                                                                                                                                                                                   170




                                                                                                                                                                                   162




                                                                                                                                                                                   149

                                                                                                                                                                                   785
                                                                                                                                                                                            52




                                                                                                                                                                                            167




                                                                                                                                                                                            356




                                                                                                                                                                                            355




                                                                                                                                                                                            310




                                                                                                                                                                                            315

                                                                                                                                                                                           1622
                                                                                                                                                                                                   18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                   19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                   20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                   21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                   22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                   23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               383




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               301




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               156




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2586
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            183




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            174




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1636
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      566




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      475




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      105




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4222
                                                                                             Daily Totals                                                                                                                    Daily Totals
                                                                        NB         SB           EB           WB     Combined                                                                               NB     SB            EB           WB     Combined
                                                                                              2882          2735     5617                                                                                                     3423          2421     5844
                                   AM                                                           PM                                                                 AM                                                           PM
Split %                            49.0%        51.0%   29.8%                                 52.3%         47.7%   70.2%      Split %                                51.6%        48.4%   27.8%                              61.3%         38.7%   72.2%
Peak Hour                          11:45        08:30   11:45                                  16:00        15:15    16:00     Peak Hour                              08:30        07:45   11:45                               16:30        15:30    17:15
 Volume                            211          206      405                                   285           260      522       Volume                                207          180      373                                479           216      664
  P.H.F.                           0.81         0.90     0.88                                  0.95          0.94     0.92       P.H.F.                               0.83         0.65     0.91                               0.92          0.87     0.97
                                                                                           FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008Average Daily City: Albany
                                                           Traffic Volumes             Project #: 08-7201-007                 Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008 Average Daily City: Albany
                                                                                                                                                                                         Traffic Volumes             Project #: 08-7201-007
 Location: Posen Ave btwn Ordway St & Ventura Ave by: Southland Car Counters
                                         Prepared                                                                              Location: Posen Ave btwn Ordway St & Ventura Ave by: Southland Car Counters
                                                                                                                                                                       Prepared
AM Period NB         SB      EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB             WB                      AM Period NB         SB      EB        WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB             WB
  00:00                        1           0                    12:00                  10              6                        00:00                         0              0                    12:00               7             12
  00:15                        2           0                    12:15                  10             17                        00:15                         1              0                    12:15               8             13
  00:30                        1           1                    12:30                   9             12                        00:30                         0              0                    12:30              11              5
  00:45                        0    4      0     1        5     12:45                   6      35     16    51       86         00:45                         0       1      0     0        1     12:45               7      33      7    37       70
  01:00                        1           0                    13:00                   6             12                        01:00                         0              0                    13:00              6               9
  01:15                        1           0                    13:15                  10              7                        01:15                         1              0                    13:15              2               5
  01:30                        0           0                    13:30                   9             11                        01:30                         0              0                    13:30              5              15
  01:45                        3    5      1     1        6     13:45                   8      33     10    40       73         01:45                         0       1      0     0        1     13:45              4       17      4    33       50
  02:00                        0           1                    14:00                  12             12                        02:00                         0              0                    14:00               7             16
  02:15                        0           0                    14:15                   8              5                        02:15                         0              1                    14:15               4              9
  02:30                        0           0                    14:30                   7              6                        02:30                         1              1                    14:30              11             12
  02:45                        0    0      0     1        1     14:45                  10      37      4    27       64         02:45                         1       2      1     3        5     14:45              12      34     14    51       85
  03:00                        0           0                    15:00                  12             11                        03:00                         0              0                    15:00              10             13
  03:15                        0           0                    15:15                   8              8                        03:15                         0              0                    15:15              34             35
  03:30                        0           0                    15:30                   5              5                        03:30                         0              0                    15:30              26             28
  03:45                        0    0      0     0              15:45                   6      31     12    36       67         03:45                         0       0      0     0              15:45              10      80     34   110       190
  04:00                        0           0                    16:00                  13             13                        04:00                         0              0                    16:00               6             15
  04:15                        0           0                    16:15                   9             11                        04:15                         2              0                    16:15              13             10
  04:30                        0           0                    16:30                   7             10                        04:30                         1              0                    16:30              11             14
  04:45                        0    0      0     0              16:45                   8      37     13    47       84         04:45                         1       4      0     0        4     16:45              10      40     13    52       92
  05:00                        0           0                    17:00                   9              9                        05:00                         0              0                    17:00              12             13
  05:15                        1           1                    17:15                   8              6                        05:15                         0              0                    17:15              10             12
  05:30                        0           0                    17:30                  11             16                        05:30                         0              1                    17:30              15             16
  05:45                        0    1      0     1        2     17:45                   9      37     18    49       86         05:45                         1       1      2     3        4     17:45              23      60     19    60       120
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
                     RA        0
                               1
                               1
                               0
                               2
                               2
                               1
                               6
                               8
                               8
                               5
                              12
                              10
                              13
                               6
                               7
                               9
                               7
                               6
                               5
                               3
                               3
                               4
                               4
                                    2




                                    11




                                    33




                                    36




                                    27




                                    14

                                   133
                                           1
                                           1
                                           0
                                           2
                                           3
                                           2
                                           5
                                           6
                                           18
                                           12
                                           14
                                           11
                                           12
                                           11
                                           13
                                           18
                                           10
                                           10
                                           13
                                            9
                                            6
                                            8
                                            6
                                           13
                                                 4




                                                 16




                                                 55




                                                 54




                                                 42




                                                 33

                                                208
                                                          6




                                                         27




                                                         88




                                                         90




                                                         69




                                                         47

                                                        341
                                                                18:00
                                                                18:15
                                                                18:30
                                                                18:45
                                                                19:00
                                                                19:15
                                                                19:30
                                                                19:45
                                                                20:00
                                                                20:15
                                                                20:30
                                                                20:45
                                                                21:00
                                                                21:15
                                                                21:30
                                                                21:45
                                                                22:00
                                                                22:15
                                                                22:30
                                                                22:45
                                                                23:00
                                                                23:15
                                                                23:30
                                                                23:45
                                                                                       15
                                                                                       11
                                                                                       12


                                                                                       11




                                                                                       7
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       5
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       1
                                                                                        7


                                                                                        8
                                                                                        1
                                                                                        9
                                                                                               45




                                                                                               29




                                                                                               19




                                                                                               9




                                                                                               3




                                                                                               3

                                                                                              318
                                                                                                      14




                                                                                                      18



                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                       7

                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                            30




                                                                                                            32




                                                                                                            10




                                                                                                            13




                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                            3

                                                                                                           344
                                                                                                                     75




                                                                                                                     61




                                                                                                                     29




                                                                                                                     22




                                                                                                                      9




                                                                                                                      6

                                                                                                                     662
                                                                                                                                06:00
                                                                                                                                06:15
                                                                                                                                06:30
                                                                                                                                06:45
                                                                                                                                07:00
                                                                                                                                07:15
                                                                                                                                07:30
                                                                                                                                07:45
                                                                                                                                08:00
                                                                                                                                08:15
                                                                                                                                08:30
                                                                                                                                08:45
                                                                                                                                09:00
                                                                                                                                09:15
                                                                                                                                09:30
                                                                                                                                09:45
                                                                                                                                10:00
                                                                                                                                10:15
                                                                                                                                10:30
                                                                                                                                10:45
                                                                                                                                11:00
                                                                                                                                11:15
                                                                                                                                11:30
                                                                                                                                11:45

                                                                                                                              Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                             51
                                                                                                                                                             89
                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                     164




                                                                                                                                                                      34




                                                                                                                                                                      26




                                                                                                                                                                      26




                                                                                                                                                                      36

                                                                                                                                                                     300
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                                             57
                                                                                                                                                                             32
                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                             17

                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                                                   20




                                                                                                                                                                                  119




                                                                                                                                                                                   49




                                                                                                                                                                                   23




                                                                                                                                                                                   29




                                                                                                                                                                                   32

                                                                                                                                                                                  278
                                                                                                                                                                                           25




                                                                                                                                                                                           283




                                                                                                                                                                                           83




                                                                                                                                                                                           49




                                                                                                                                                                                           55




                                                                                                                                                                                           68

                                                                                                                                                                                          578
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            396
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         534
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   169




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   930
                                                                                            Daily Totals                                                                                                                  Daily Totals
                                                                        NB        SB           EB           WB     Combined                                                                               NB    SB           EB           WB     Combined
                                                                                              451          552      1003                                                                                                    696          812      1508
                                   AM                                                          PM                                                                 AM                                                         PM
Split %                            39.0%        61.0%   34.0%                                48.0%         52.0%   66.0%      Split %                                51.9%        48.1%   38.3%                            42.6%         57.4%   61.7%
Peak Hour                          08:45        08:00   09:00                                 17:45        12:15    17:30     Peak Hour                              07:00        07:15   07:00                             14:45        15:15    15:00
 Volume                             41           55      90                                    47            57      102       Volume                                164          122      283                               82           112      190
  P.H.F.                           0.79         0.76     0.90                                 0.78          0.84     0.88       P.H.F.                               0.46         0.54     0.58                             0.60          0.80     0.69
                                                                                           FT
Volumes for: Thursday, March 27, 2008 Average DailyCity: Albany
                                                           Traffic Volumes             Project #: 08-7201-008                 Volumes for: Tuesday, April 01, 2008  Average DailyCity: Albany
                                                                                                                                                                                         Traffic Volumes             Project #: 08-7201-008
 Location: Posen Ave btwn Ventura Ave & West Pl
                                         Prepared by: Southland Car Counters                                                   Location: Posen Ave btwn Ventura Ave & West Pl
                                                                                                                                                                       Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
AM Period NB         SB       EB       WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB             WB                      AM Period NB         SB       EB       WB                PM Period NB        SB        EB             WB
  00:00                        1           0                    12:00                  10              4                        00:00                         0              0                    12:00               9              8
  00:15                        1           0                    12:15                  13             17                        00:15                         0              0                    12:15              11             14
  00:30                        2           1                    12:30                  14             16                        00:30                         0              0                    12:30               9             14
  00:45                        0    4      0     1        5     12:45                   6      43      4    41       84         00:45                         0       0      0     0              12:45               6      35      7    43       78
  01:00                        1           0                    13:00                   8              5                        01:00                         0              0                    13:00              11              3
  01:15                        1           0                    13:15                   9              3                        01:15                         0              0                    13:15               7              2
  01:30                        0           0                    13:30                  11              8                        01:30                         0              0                    13:30               5              6
  01:45                        3    5      0     0        5     13:45                   7      35     10    26       61         01:45                         0       0      0     0              13:45               6      29     12    23       52
  02:00                        0           0                    14:00                  11             11                        02:00                         1              1                    14:00              11              6
  02:15                        0           0                    14:15                   8              4                        02:15                         0              0                    14:15              23              7
  02:30                        0           0                    14:30                   7              7                        02:30                         0              0                    14:30              30             29
  02:45                        0    0      0     0              14:45                  10      36      4    26       62         02:45                         0       1      0     1        2     14:45               4      68      8    50       118
  03:00                        0           0                    15:00                  12             10                        03:00                         0              0                    15:00               5             11
  03:15                        0           0                    15:15                   6              8                        03:15                         1              0                    15:15              16              9
  03:30                        0           0                    15:30                   4              5                        03:30                         0              0                    15:30              16             12
  03:45                        0    0      0     0              15:45                   7      29     12    35       64         03:45                         0       1      0     0        1     15:45              19      56     22    54       110
  04:00                        1           0                    16:00                  14             11                        04:00                         0              0                    16:00              18              9
  04:15                        0           0                    16:15                   8             12                        04:15                         0              0                    16:15              14             17
  04:30                        0           0                    16:30                   6             11                        04:30                         0              0                    16:30               6             10
  04:45                        0    1      0     0        1     16:45                   9      37     14    48       85         04:45                         0       0      0     0              16:45               9      47      5    41       88
  05:00                        0           0                    17:00                   7              9                        05:00                         2              1                    17:00              0              18
  05:15                        1           1                    17:15                   9              7                        05:15                         1              0                    17:15              0              23
  05:30                        1           0                    17:30                  10             17                        05:30                         0              0                    17:30              0              40
  05:45                        0    2      0     1        3     17:45                   9      35     17    50       85         05:45                         0       3      2     3        6     17:45              0       0      42   123       123
  06:00
  06:15
  06:30
  06:45
  07:00
  07:15
  07:30
  07:45
  08:00
  08:15
  08:30
  08:45
  09:00
  09:15
  09:30
  09:45
  10:00
  10:15
  10:30
  10:45
  11:00
  11:15
  11:30
  11:45

Total Vol.
                     RA        1
                               1
                               1
                               2
                               1
                               2
                               1
                               8
                              12
                               6
                               9
                              11
                              15
                              11
                               6
                               8
                               5
                               6
                               7
                               8
                               6
                               3
                               2
                              10
                                    5




                                    12




                                    38




                                    40




                                    26




                                    21

                                   154
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0
                                           1
                                           1
                                           0
                                           4
                                           1
                                           15
                                            9
                                            8
                                           11
                                            3
                                           13
                                           12
                                            9
                                            9
                                           11
                                            8
                                            8
                                            9
                                            3
                                           10
                                           11
                                                 1




                                                 6




                                                 43




                                                 37




                                                 36




                                                 33

                                                158
                                                          6




                                                         18




                                                         81




                                                         77




                                                         62




                                                         54

                                                        312
                                                                18:00
                                                                18:15
                                                                18:30
                                                                18:45
                                                                19:00
                                                                19:15
                                                                19:30
                                                                19:45
                                                                20:00
                                                                20:15
                                                                20:30
                                                                20:45
                                                                21:00
                                                                21:15
                                                                21:30
                                                                21:45
                                                                22:00
                                                                22:15
                                                                22:30
                                                                22:45
                                                                23:00
                                                                23:15
                                                                23:30
                                                                23:45
                                                                                       16

                                                                                       12


                                                                                       10




                                                                                       7
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       6
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       1
                                                                                        9

                                                                                        6


                                                                                        9
                                                                                        1
                                                                                        9
                                                                                               43




                                                                                               29




                                                                                               19




                                                                                               9




                                                                                               3




                                                                                               3

                                                                                              321
                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                      17



                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                       6

                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                            34




                                                                                                            32




                                                                                                            9




                                                                                                            11




                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                            3

                                                                                                           321
                                                                                                                     77




                                                                                                                     61




                                                                                                                     28




                                                                                                                     20




                                                                                                                      9




                                                                                                                      6

                                                                                                                     642
                                                                                                                                06:00
                                                                                                                                06:15
                                                                                                                                06:30
                                                                                                                                06:45
                                                                                                                                07:00
                                                                                                                                07:15
                                                                                                                                07:30
                                                                                                                                07:45
                                                                                                                                08:00
                                                                                                                                08:15
                                                                                                                                08:30
                                                                                                                                08:45
                                                                                                                                09:00
                                                                                                                                09:15
                                                                                                                                09:30
                                                                                                                                09:45
                                                                                                                                10:00
                                                                                                                                10:15
                                                                                                                                10:30
                                                                                                                                10:45
                                                                                                                                11:00
                                                                                                                                11:15
                                                                                                                                11:30
                                                                                                                                11:45

                                                                                                                              Total Vol.
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                             82
                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                      59




                                                                                                                                                                     118




                                                                                                                                                                      28




                                                                                                                                                                      25




                                                                                                                                                                      25

                                                                                                                                                                     262
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                                             57
                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                                             13


                                                                                                                                                                             11



                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                              5

                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                   30




                                                                                                                                                                                  103




                                                                                                                                                                                   27




                                                                                                                                                                                   24




                                                                                                                                                                                   21

                                                                                                                                                                                  212
                                                                                                                                                                                            5




                                                                                                                                                                                           89




                                                                                                                                                                                           221




                                                                                                                                                                                           55




                                                                                                                                                                                           49




                                                                                                                                                                                           46

                                                                                                                                                                                          474
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  19:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  21:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  22:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:00
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:15
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:30
                                                                                                                                                                                                  23:45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            355
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9    69




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         451
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   61




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   806
                                                                                            Daily Totals                                                                                                                  Daily Totals
                                                                        NB        SB           EB           WB     Combined                                                                               NB    SB           EB           WB     Combined
                                                                                              475          479       954                                                                                                    617          663      1280
                                   AM                                                          PM                                                                 AM                                                         PM
Split %                            49.4%        50.6%   32.7%                                50.0%         50.0%   67.3%      Split %                                55.3%        44.7%   37.0%                            44.0%         56.0%   63.0%
Peak Hour                          11:45        11:45   11:45                                 17:45        17:30    17:30     Peak Hour                              07:30        07:45   07:45                             13:45        17:15    17:30
 Volume                             47           48      95                                    46            58      102       Volume                                152          107      256                               70           139      159
  P.H.F.                           0.84         0.71     0.79                                 0.72          0.85     0.82       P.H.F.                               0.46         0.47     0.46                             0.58          0.83     0.85
                          Transportation Impacts of the Proposed
                    Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan




            T
 Appendix C: Speed Survey Data



AF
DR


                                                   May 19, 2008
DR
  AF
     T
                                                                           FT
                                                                                   MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                              SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                    925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:       BERKELEY                                                                                                                                          SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:           ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                       DATE:      11/6/2007
LIMITS:             HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                         DAY:       TUESDAY
                                                                                                Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                Direction:        NB
Time      Total     < 10       10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM         2        0            0            0            0            1           0             1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM         1        0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM         1        0            0            0            0            0           1             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM         1        0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM         0        0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM         1        0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM         1        0            0            0            1            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM         3        0            0            0            0            1           1             0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM       127        3            1            7           20           31          31            19         9         6         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM        48        1            1            3            6            7           7             8         6         5         2         2         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM         7        0            1            1            0            2           2             0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM         6        1            1            0            1            0           2             0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
          RA     13
                 24
                 19
                 39
                 30
                 46
                 40
                 16
                 13
                  4
                  6
                  5
                453

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                           1
                           0
                           1
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           1
                           0
                           0
                           0
                           8

                                     10%
                                        0
                                        0
                                        1
                                        2
                                        1
                                        1
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                        1
                                        1
                                       11


                                       14


                               13.5 - 23.5
                               362 (79.9 %)
                                                     0
                                                     1
                                                     1
                                                     3
                                                     1
                                                     4
                                                     3
                                                     1
                                                     2
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                    27

                                                               15%
                                                                  1
                                                                  3
                                                                  3
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  7
                                                                  4
                                                                  4
                                                                  1
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                 51


                                                               14.8
                                                                               1
                                                                               3
                                                                               3
                                                                               6
                                                                               2
                                                                               9
                                                                               8
                                                                               2
                                                                               2
                                                                               0
                                                                               2
                                                                               2
                                                                              82
                                                                                           6
                                                                                           1
                                                                                           2
                                                                                          11
                                                                                           8
                                                                                          12
                                                                                           9
                                                                                           4
                                                                                           3
                                                                                           1
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           1
                                                                                         102

                                                                                         50%
                                                                                         19.1
                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                        69

                                                                                                               85%
                                                                                                               23.1


                                                                                                          Average:
                                                                                                          Minimum:
                                                                                                          Maximum:
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                  51
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                            36

                                                                                                                                   90%
                                                                                                                                   24.2
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                      10




                                                                                                                                    19 MPH
                                                                                                                                    6.7 MPH
                                                                                                                                   29.5 MPH
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




Speed Exeeded                  15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                  84.30%                     6.80%                     0.00%
Count                                 382                        31                        0
                                                                            FT
                                                                                    MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                               SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                     925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:       BERKELEY                                                                                                                                           SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:           ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                        DATE:      11/7/2007
LIMITS:             HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                          DAY:       WEDNESDAY
                                                                                                 Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                 Direction:        NB
Time      Total     < 10        10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM         3         0            0            0            0            0           3             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM         1         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM         1         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM         1         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM         3         0            0            0            0            1           1             0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM        33         0            1            1            6            3          11             9         1         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM       128         4            2            9           12           19          28            28        17         7         0         1         1         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM        18         0            0            0            1            4           2             5         5         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM        10         0            1            0            0            1           6             2         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
          RA     13
                 34
                 16
                 46
                 41
                 46
                 39
                 17
                 19
                 10
                  1
                  6
                486

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                            0
                            2
                            1
                            0
                            0
                            0
                            1
                            2
                            1
                            0
                            0
                            0
                           11

                                      10%
                                         0
                                         0
                                         0
                                         3
                                         2
                                         1
                                         0
                                         1
                                         1
                                         1
                                         0
                                         0
                                        13


                                      13.9


                                14.5 - 24.5
                                398 (81.9 %)
                                                      0
                                                      2
                                                      3
                                                      2
                                                      3
                                                      1
                                                      2
                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                      2
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                     26

                                                                15%
                                                                   1
                                                                   0
                                                                   1
                                                                   7
                                                                   7
                                                                   7
                                                                   7
                                                                   1
                                                                   0
                                                                   2
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                  52


                                                                  15
                                                                                2
                                                                                4
                                                                                2
                                                                                6
                                                                                7
                                                                               12
                                                                                5
                                                                                2
                                                                                5
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                               76
                                                                                            4
                                                                                            6
                                                                                            4
                                                                                            8
                                                                                            9
                                                                                            9
                                                                                            6
                                                                                            3
                                                                                            4
                                                                                            1
                                                                                            0
                                                                                            1
                                                                                          106

                                                                                          50%
                                                                                          19.1
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                         96

                                                                                                                85%
                                                                                                                23.1


                                                                                                           Average:
                                                                                                           Minimum:
                                                                                                           Maximum:
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                   57
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                             32

                                                                                                                                    90%
                                                                                                                                    23.8
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                       12




                                                                                                                                     19 MPH
                                                                                                                                     6.1 MPH
                                                                                                                                    30.1 MPH
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




Speed Exeeded                   15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                   85.40%                     5.30%                     0.00%
Count                                  415                        26                        0
                                                                            FT
                                                                                    MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                               SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                     925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:       BERKELEY                                                                                                                                           SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:           ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                        DATE:       11/8/2007
LIMITS:             HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                          DAY:       THURSDAY
                                                                                                 Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                 Direction:        NB
Time      Total     < 10        10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM         2         0            0            0            0            1           0             1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM         2         0            0            0            0            2           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM         2         0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM         5         0            0            0            0            1           0             1         1         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM       111         3            2            7           19           22          23            22         8         2         1         0         1         0         0            0               0            1
  9:00 AM        37         0            0            3            4            3           6            11         5         0         3         2         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM        12         0            0            0            4            2           2             1         1         2         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM        13         1            0            0            1            1           1             3         1         3         1         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
          RA      5
                 32
                 17
                 28
                 58
                 52
                 48
                 64
                 32
                 26
                  8
                  4
                558

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                            0
                            0
                            0
                            0
                            2
                            2
                            2
                            2
                            2
                            0
                            0
                            0
                           14

                                      10%
                                         0
                                         0
                                         1
                                         2
                                         1
                                         1
                                         1
                                         1
                                         0
                                         0
                                         1
                                         1
                                        11


                                      13.8


                                13.9 - 23.9
                                421 (75.4 %)
                                                      0
                                                      3
                                                      2
                                                      2
                                                      4
                                                      4
                                                      4
                                                      5
                                                      2
                                                      2
                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                     39

                                                                15%
                                                                   1
                                                                   3
                                                                   1
                                                                   5
                                                                   7
                                                                   6
                                                                   5
                                                                   4
                                                                   1
                                                                   2
                                                                   1
                                                                   0
                                                                  64


                                                                14.7
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                4
                                                                                5
                                                                                9
                                                                                8
                                                                                5
                                                                               11
                                                                                3
                                                                                6
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                               86
                                                                                            1
                                                                                            7
                                                                                            6
                                                                                            4
                                                                                           15
                                                                                            7
                                                                                           16
                                                                                           13
                                                                                           10
                                                                                            2
                                                                                            1
                                                                                            0
                                                                                          114

                                                                                          50%
                                                                                          19.2
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                         89

                                                                                                                85%
                                                                                                                23.8


                                                                                                           Average:
                                                                                                           Minimum:
                                                                                                           Maximum:
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                   59
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                             44

                                                                                                                                    90%
                                                                                                                                    24.8
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                       27




                                                                                                                                    19.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                     6.1 MPH
                                                                                                                                    53.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1




Speed Exeeded                   15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                   82.80%                     9.10%                     0.20%
Count                                  462                        51                        1
                                                                            FT
                                                                                    MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                               SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                     925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:       BERKELEY                                                                                                                                           SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:           ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                        DATE:       11/9/2007
LIMITS:             HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                          DAY:       FRIDAY
                                                                                                 Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                 Direction:        NB
Time      Total     < 10        10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM         3         0            0            0            0            2            1            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM         1         0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM         1         0            0            0            1            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM         0         0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM         1         0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM         2         0            0            0            0            1            0            0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM       121         2            4            4           13           28           20           30        16         3         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM        28         0            0            1            2            7            5            7         1         4         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM        16         0            1            2            1            2            4            2         2         2         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM         9         0            1            2            2            1            0            0         1         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
          RA     18
                 59
                 34
                 29
                 18
                 25
                 17
                 17
                  9
                  2
                  4
                  7
                421

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                            2
                            2
                            0
                            1
                            0
                            1
                            2
                            1
                            0
                            0
                            0
                            0
                           11

                                      10%
                                         2
                                         2
                                         2
                                         0
                                         1
                                         1
                                         2
                                         1
                                         0
                                         0
                                         0
                                         0
                                        17


                                      13.1


                                15.3 - 25.3
                                326 (77.4 %)
                                                      0
                                                      4
                                                      2
                                                      1
                                                      2
                                                      0
                                                      1
                                                      2
                                                      1
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                     22

                                                                15%
                                                                   1
                                                                   4
                                                                   1
                                                                   3
                                                                   1
                                                                   2
                                                                   1
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                   0
                                                                  32


                                                                14.7
                                                                                4
                                                                               10
                                                                                5
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                3
                                                                                3
                                                                                2
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                3
                                                                               75

                                                                                          50%
                                                                                             5
                                                                                            11
                                                                                             7
                                                                                             7
                                                                                             2
                                                                                             2
                                                                                             5
                                                                                             5
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             1
                                                                                             2
                                                                                             1
                                                                                            78


                                                                                          19.3
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                         77

                                                                                                                85%
                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                23.5


                                                                                                           Average:
                                                                                                           Minimum:
                                                                                                           Maximum:
                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                   54
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                             38

                                                                                                                                    90%
                                                                                                                                    24.4
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                       12




                                                                                                                                    19.1 MPH
                                                                                                                                     5.5 MPH
                                                                                                                                     35 MPH
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




Speed Exeeded                   15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                   84.10%                     7.10%                     0.00%
Count                                  354                        30                        0
                                                                                FT
                                                                                        MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                   SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                         925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                           SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                        DATE:      11/10/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                          DAY:       SATURDAY
                                                                                                     Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                     Direction:        NB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           1           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           1           0            0            0            0            0            1            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           2           0            0            0            0            0            0            1         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           2           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         2         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM           2           0            0            0            0            1            0            0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM          21           0            0            0            3            5            4            5         2         2         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          18           0            2            1            3            2            1            3         2         2         1         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          17           3            0            0            0            2            2            2         2         4         2         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA      32
                   39
                   26
                   18
                   18
                   14
                    7
                    5
                   11
                    1
                    7
                    5
                  247

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                                4
                                0
                                0
                                1
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                2
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                0
                               10

                                          10%
                                             2
                                             0
                                             3
                                             2
                                             1
                                             1
                                             0
                                             0
                                             1
                                             1
                                             1
                                             1
                                            15


                                          11.9


                                    15.0 - 25.0
                                    187 (75.7 %)
                                                          1
                                                          2
                                                          1
                                                          3
                                                          2
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                         12

                                                                    15%
                                                                       4
                                                                       5
                                                                       1
                                                                       3
                                                                       2
                                                                       3
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                       0
                                                                       3
                                                                       1
                                                                      30


                                                                    13.9
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    9
                                                                                    9
                                                                                    3
                                                                                    2
                                                                                    3
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    2
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    0
                                                                                   42

                                                                                              50%
                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                43


                                                                                              18.6
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                             37

                                                                                                                    85%
                                                                                                                    23.3


                                                                                                               Average:
                                                                                                               Minimum:
                                                                                                               Maximum:
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                 23

                                                                                                                                        90%
                                                                                                                                        24.4
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                                                                        18.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                         6.4 MPH
                                                                                                                                         31 MPH
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                       81.00%                     6.10%                     0.00%
Count                                      200                        15                        0
                                                                                     FT
                                                                                             MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                        SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                              925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                                SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                             DATE:      11/11/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                               DAY:       SUNDAY
                                                                                                          Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                          Direction:        NB
Time      Total         < 10       10 - < 12       12 - < 14       14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           8          2               0               0            0            2            4            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           1          0               0               0            0            1            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           1          0               0               0            0            1            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM           0          0               0               0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM           4          2               0               1            1            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM           3          0               1               1            0            0            1            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM           2          0               0               0            0            1            0            1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA
10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                    4
                    6
                    7
                    1
                   16
                   13
                    9
                    6
                    3
                    8
                    5
                    3
                  100

Percentile Speeds (MPH)
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               1
                               1
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               6

                                         10%
                                         10.8


                                   13.1 - 23.1
                                   79 (79.0 %)
                                               0
                                               0
                                               0
                                               0
                                               0
                                               2
                                               1
                                               0
                                               0
                                               2
                                               0
                                               0
                                               6
                                                               0
                                                               1
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               4
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               7

                                                                         15%
                                                                            1
                                                                            1
                                                                            3
                                                                            0
                                                                            1
                                                                            1
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                            1
                                                                            3
                                                                            1
                                                                            0
                                                                           13


                                                                         12.6
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         4
                                                                                         2
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         1
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                        17

                                                                                                   50%
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                     25


                                                                                                   18.1
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                  13

                                                                                                                         85%
                                                                                                                         21.6


                                                                                                                    Average:
                                                                                                                    Minimum:
                                                                                                                    Maximum:
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                                             90%
                                                                                                                                             22.2
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                             17.5 MPH
                                                                                                                                              7.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                             28.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




Speed Exeeded                      15 MPH                          25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                      75.00%                           3.00%                     0.00%
Count                                      75                              3                         0
                                                                               FT
                                                                                       MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                  SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                        925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                          SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                       DATE:       11/6/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                         DAY:       TUESDAY
                                                                                                    Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                    Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10       10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           3          0            0            0            0            0            1            0         0         0         2         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           0          0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           0          0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           1          0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0          0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           1          0            0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         1            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           3          1            0            0            0            0            1            0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM           2          1            0            0            0            1            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM          71          3            2            2           10           15           12           14         9         3         0         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM          38          0            0            1            1            8            9            3         6         8         1         0         1         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          20          0            0            2            2            2            2            5         1         4         1         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          14          0            0            1            1            0            0            5         2         3         2         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA      11
                   20
                   17
                   54
                   61
                   41
                   58
                   24
                   14
                   10
                    7
                    2
                  472

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               0
                               1
                               1
                               0
                               0
                               1
                               0
                               8

                                         10%
                                            0
                                            1
                                            1
                                            2
                                            1
                                            1
                                            3
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                           11


                                           15


                                   16.4 - 26.4
                                   355 (75.2 %)
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         1
                                                         4
                                                         2
                                                         0
                                                         1
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                        14

                                                                   15%
                                                                      0
                                                                      1
                                                                      1
                                                                      3
                                                                      2
                                                                      2
                                                                      8
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      0
                                                                      1
                                                                      0
                                                                     32


                                                                   16.2
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   3
                                                                                   3
                                                                                   4
                                                                                   6
                                                                                   8
                                                                                   2
                                                                                   1
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                  53
                                                                                               13




                                                                                             50%
                                                                                                4
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                3
                                                                                                5
                                                                                                6
                                                                                                9

                                                                                                7
                                                                                                4
                                                                                                3
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                1
                                                                                               82


                                                                                               21
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                            78

                                                                                                                   85%
                                                                                                                      14




                                                                                                                   25.5


                                                                                                              Average:
                                                                                                              Minimum:
                                                                                                              Maximum:
                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                       9

                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                67

                                                                                                                                       90%
                                                                                                                                       26.4
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                          32




                                                                                                                                       20.8 MPH
                                                                                                                                          5 MPH
                                                                                                                                       34.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




Speed Exeeded                      15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                      90.50%                    17.60%                     0.00%
Count                                     427                        83                        0
                                                                                   FT
                                                                                           MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                      SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                            925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                              SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                           DATE:       11/7/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                             DAY:       WEDNESDAY
                                                                                                        Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                        Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12       12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           4           0               0            0            0            0            0            3         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           2           1               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               1            0
  7:00 AM           3           1               0            0            0            0            0            1         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM          22           1               1            3            1            2            4            3         3         1         3         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM          82           0               1            7            6           11           15           18        12         7         4         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          20           0               0            0            0            4            2            5         7         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          17           0               1            1            0            4            3            4         4         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA
10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                   10
                   30
                   11
                   64
                   71
                   46
                   58
                   37
                   15
                   12
                    4
                    2
                  511

Percentile Speeds (MPH)
                                0
                                1
                                1
                                1
                                1
                                1
                                1
                                1
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                0
                               10

                                          10%
                                          14.4


                                    15.9 - 25.9
                                    393 (76.9 %)
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                2
                                                0
                                                0
                                                3
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                9
                                                             0
                                                             2
                                                             0
                                                             4
                                                             4
                                                             0
                                                             1
                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                            25

                                                                       15%
                                                                          0
                                                                          3
                                                                          1
                                                                          3
                                                                          2
                                                                          4
                                                                          4
                                                                          2
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          1
                                                                          0
                                                                         27


                                                                       16.1
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       6
                                                                                      10
                                                                                       6
                                                                                       9
                                                                                       6
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                      66

                                                                                                 50%
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                   13
                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   86


                                                                                                 20.7
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                97

                                                                                                                       85%
                                                                                                                          10

                                                                                                                          12




                                                                                                                       25.2


                                                                                                                  Average:
                                                                                                                  Minimum:
                                                                                                                  Maximum:
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                           5

                                                                                                                           9

                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                          82
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                    57

                                                                                                                                           90%
                                                                                                                                           25.9
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                              24




                                                                                                                                           20.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                            5.4 MPH
                                                                                                                                           48.8 MPH
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                       25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                       88.60%                       16.00%                     0.20%
Count                                      453                           82                        1
                                                                                FT
                                                                                        MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                   SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                         925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                           SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                        DATE:       11/8/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                          DAY:       THURSDAY
                                                                                                     Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                     Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12    12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           4           0            0            0            0            0           1             0         1         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           1           0            0            0            0            1           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           0           0            0            0            0            0           0             0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           2           0            0            0            0            0           0             0         1         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            1
  7:00 AM           4           2            0            0            0            0           1             0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM          66           5            1            5            7           18          10             7         6         4         0         1         1         0         0            1               0            0
  9:00 AM          29           0            0            2            0            3           7             5         6         3         1         0         2         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          14           1            0            0            1            3           0             2         4         1         0         2         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          14           0            0            1            2            0           4             1         4         2         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA      28
                   17
                   19
                   24
                   98
                   54
                   57
                   37
                   26
                   84
                   10
                    5
                  593

Percentile Speeds (MPH)




10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                                1
                                0
                                2
                                2
                                2
                                2
                                1
                                2
                                1
                                1
                                0
                                0
                               22

                                          10%
                                             0
                                             1
                                             0
                                             1
                                             3
                                             1
                                             3
                                             2
                                             0
                                             1
                                             0
                                             0
                                            13


                                          14.1


                                    16.0 - 26.0
                                    438 (73.9 %)
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          0
                                                          3
                                                          2
                                                          0
                                                          2
                                                          1
                                                          4
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                         23

                                                                    15%
                                                                       1
                                                                       0
                                                                       0
                                                                       2
                                                                       5
                                                                       1
                                                                       6
                                                                       2
                                                                       2
                                                                       4
                                                                       0
                                                                       1
                                                                      34


                                                                    15.7
                                                                                    2
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    3
                                                                                    6
                                                                                    9
                                                                                    8
                                                                                   10
                                                                                    4
                                                                                    3
                                                                                    4
                                                                                    1
                                                                                    0
                                                                                   75
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                4
                                                                                                3
                                                                                                4
                                                                                               16
                                                                                               11
                                                                                               13
                                                                                                3
                                                                                                5
                                                                                               20
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                0
                                                                                              106

                                                                                              50%
                                                                                              20.4
                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                            101

                                                                                                                    85%
                                                                                                                    25.2


                                                                                                               Average:
                                                                                                               Minimum:
                                                                                                               Maximum:
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                       86
                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                 70

                                                                                                                                        90%
                                                                                                                                        26.1
                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                           33




                                                                                                                                        20.4 MPH
                                                                                                                                         5.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                        42.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                    25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                       87.20%                    17.20%                     0.20%
Count                                      517                       102                        1
                                                                                   FT
                                                                                           MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                      SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                            925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                              SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                           DATE:       11/9/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                             DAY:       FRIDAY
                                                                                                        Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                        Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12       12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           2           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         1         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            0            1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            1               0            0
  7:00 AM           4           1               1            0            0            0            0            0         0         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM          73           2               2            6            3           14           22           15         5         2         2         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM          23           0               0            0            4            5            1            2         2         6         2         0         1         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          13           0               0            0            1            2            3            2         3         1         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          21           1               0            3            3            2            1            4         3         0         1         2         0         1         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA
10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                   22
                   90
                   40
                   32
                   38
                   35
                   24
                   24
                   10
                    3
                    6
                    8
                  471

Percentile Speeds (MPH)
                                1
                                4
                                1
                                2
                                0
                                0
                                1
                                1
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                0
                               14

                                          10%
                                          14.1


                                    16.0 - 26.0
                                    344 (73.0 %)
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                1
                                                0
                                                3
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                7
                                                             0
                                                             4
                                                             0
                                                             1
                                                             3
                                                             4
                                                             0
                                                             2
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             1
                                                            24

                                                                       15%
                                                                          2
                                                                          5
                                                                          1
                                                                          4
                                                                          0
                                                                          1
                                                                          1
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                         25


                                                                       15.8
                                                                                       2
                                                                                      12
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       5
                                                                                       6
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       4
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       5
                                                                                       0
                                                                                      65

                                                                                                 50%
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   86


                                                                                                 20.4
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                79

                                                                                                                       85%
                                                                                                                          13




                                                                                                                       25.5


                                                                                                                  Average:
                                                                                                                  Minimum:
                                                                                                                  Maximum:
                                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                          64
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                    50

                                                                                                                                           90%
                                                                                                                                           26.4
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                              30




                                                                                                                                           20.4 MPH
                                                                                                                                            5.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                           36.8 MPH
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                       25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                       88.10%                       17.40%                     0.00%
Count                                      415                           82                        0
                                                                                   FT
                                                                                           MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                      SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                            925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                              SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                           DATE:      11/10/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                             DAY:       SATURDAY
                                                                                                        Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                        Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12       12 - < 14    14 - < 16    16 - < 18    18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           2           0               0            0            0            0            0            1         0         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           2           0               0            0            0            0            0            1         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            1            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           0           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           1           0               0            0            0            0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            1
  7:00 AM           2           1               0            0            0            0            0            1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM           8           1               0            0            1            2            0            2         1         1         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM          17           2               0            1            0            2            1            1         5         3         1         0         0         1         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM          19           0               1            0            1            4            3            1         3         3         0         1         1         1         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM          15           1               1            0            1            3            0            1         2         4         1         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA
10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                   28
                   37
                   46
                   22
                   16
                   21
                   15
                    9
                    3
                    1
                    6
                    4
                  275

Percentile Speeds (MPH)
                                1
                                2
                                0
                                1
                                1
                                0
                                0
                                2
                                0
                                0
                                1
                                0
                               13

                                          10%
                                          12.7


                                    15.9 - 25.9
                                    202 (73.5 %)
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                1
                                                1
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0
                                                6
                                                             1
                                                             1
                                                             3
                                                             7
                                                             1
                                                             2
                                                             1
                                                             1
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                            18

                                                                       15%
                                                                          3
                                                                          5
                                                                          3
                                                                          2
                                                                          1
                                                                          2
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          0
                                                                          1
                                                                          0
                                                                         20


                                                                       14.5
                                                                                       9
                                                                                       8
                                                                                      11
                                                                                       3
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       1
                                                                                       2
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
                                                                                      48

                                                                                                 50%
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   35


                                                                                                 19.9
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                41

                                                                                                                       85%
                                                                                                                       24.6


                                                                                                                  Average:
                                                                                                                  Minimum:
                                                                                                                  Maximum:
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                          41
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                    36

                                                                                                                                           90%
                                                                                                                                           25.7
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               8




                                                                                                                                           19.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                            6.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                           42.6 MPH
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                       25 MPH                    40 MPH
                                       83.30%                       13.10%                     0.40%
Count                                      229                           36                        1
                                                                                         FT
                                                                                                    MULTITRANS TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                               SAN RAMON, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                                     925-355-7300
JURISDICTION:           BERKELEY                                                                                                                                                       SITE:      BERK01
LOCATION:               ALBINA AVE.                                                                                                                                                    DATE:      11/11/2007
LIMITS:                 HOPKINS ST. & HOPKINS CT.                                                                                                                                      DAY:       SUNDAY
                                                                                                                 Daily Speed (60 Min.)
                                                                                                                 Direction:        SB
Time      Total         < 10        10 - < 12       12 - < 14       14 - < 16       16 - < 18       18 - < 20    20 - < 22 22 - < 24 24 - < 26 26 - < 28 28 - < 30 30 - < 32 32 - < 34 34 - < 36 36 - < 38       38 - < 40       40 - < 200
 12:00 AM          11           3               0               0               2               0            5            1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  1:00 AM           0           0               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  2:00 AM           0           0               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  3:00 AM           0           0               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  4:00 AM           0           0               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  5:00 AM           1           0               1               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  6:00 AM           0           0               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  7:00 AM           1           1               0               0               0               0            0            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  8:00 AM           4           1               0               1               0               0            1            1         0         0         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
  9:00 AM           5           1               0               1               0               1            1            0         0         0         0         1         0         0         0            0               0            0
 10:00 AM           9           2               1               0               0               0            1            1         1         3         0         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 11:00 AM           4           0               0               0               0               0            1            2         0         0         1         0         0         0         0            0               0            0
 12:00 PM
  1:00 PM
  2:00 PM
  3:00 PM
  4:00 PM
  5:00 PM
  6:00 PM
  7:00 PM
  8:00 PM
  9:00 PM
 10:00 PM
 11:00 PM
           RA
10 MPH Pace Speed
Number in Pace
                   13
                   11
                    9
                    7
                    9
                    7
                   11
                   10
                    8
                    4
                    2
                    1
                  127

Percentile Speeds (MPH)
                                0
                                0
                                1
                                0
                                1
                                0
                                1
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                0
                                0
                               11

                                          10%
                                          10.6


                                    17.2 - 27.2
                                    85 (66.9 %)
                                                0
                                                1
                                                0
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                2
                                                0
                                                0
                                                1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                7
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                1
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                0
                                                                6

                                                                          15%
                                                                          12.1
                                                                                2
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                1
                                                                                1
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                0
                                                                                8
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                2
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                7

                                                                                                          50%
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                            25


                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                         20

                                                                                                                                85%
                                                                                                                                24.8


                                                                                                                           Average:
                                                                                                                           Minimum:
                                                                                                                           Maximum:
                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                   13
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                             15

                                                                                                                                                    90%
                                                                                                                                                    26.4
                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                       11




                                                                                                                                                    19.3 MPH
                                                                                                                                                     5.2 MPH
                                                                                                                                                    29.8 MPH
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




Speed Exeeded                       15 MPH                          25 MPH                          40 MPH
                                       78.00%                          15.70%                           0.00%
Count                                       99                              20                              0
                                      Transportation Impacts of the Proposed
                                Saint Mary's College High School Master Plan




                       T
Appendix D: Intersection Level of Service Calculations



    AF
DR


                                                               May 19, 2008
DR
  AF
     T
                                                                                             FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School AM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Existing without School AM
1: Gilman St & Hopkins St                                                                                     5/19/2008    2: Hopkins St & Albina Ave                                                                                   5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NEL     NET      SWT      SWR                                          Movement                            WBL    WBR      SBL    SBR       NEL      NER
Lane Configurations                                                                                                        Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop      Stop                                                 Volume (veh/h)                       422    10        2     14         13      490
Volume (vph)                         397     14       17     103       160      277                                        Sign Control                        Free           Stop              Free
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92     0.90    0.90      0.92     0.92                                        Grade                                0%             0%                0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               432     15       19     114       174      301                                        Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92    0.90    0.90      0.93     0.93
                                                                                                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)               459     11       2      16        14      527
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NE 1    SW 1
                                                                                                                           Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   447     133     475                                                                   Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                      0      19     174                                                                   Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    15     114       0                                                                   Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.01   -0.45    0.11                                                                   Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                4.9     5.6     5.0                                                                   Median type                      None                               None
Degree Utilization, x               0.61    0.21    0.66                                                                   Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     708     559     708                                                                   Upstream signal (ft)                387
Control Delay (s)                   15.3    10.1    16.9                                                                   pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  15.3    10.1    16.9                                                                   vC, conflicting volume                             1019    464        470
Approach LOS                           C       B       C                                                                   vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                       vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                15.4                                                                  vCu, unblocked vol                                 1019    464        470
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       54.9%
                                                        C

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service         A
                                                                                                                           tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                           tF (s)
                                                                                                                           p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                           cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                           Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                           Volume Total
                                                                                                                           Volume Left
                                                                                                                           Volume Right
                                                                                                                           cSH
                                                                                                                           Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                           Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                           Lane LOS
                                                                                                                           Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                           Approach LOS
                                                                                                                           Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                           Average Delay

                                                                                                                           Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                           WB 1
                                                                                                                                                             470

                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                           1700




                                                                                                                           Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                            0.28
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                             0.0

                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                      SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                                                                                                                                       514
                                                                                                                                                                      0.03
                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                      12.3
                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                      12.3
                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                               6.4

                                                                                                                                                                               3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                99
                                                                                                                                                                               259
                                                                                                                                                                              NE 1
                                                                                                                                                                               541
                                                                                                                                                                                14
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                              1092
                                                                                                                                                                              0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                               0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                               0.4



                                                                                                                                                                                0.4
                                                                                                                                                                             68.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                      6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                      3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                       97
                                                                                                                                                                                      598
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  99
                                                                                                                                                                                                1092




                                                                                                                                                                                            ICU Level of Service         C




St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                           DMJM Harris                                                                                                               DMJM Harris
                                                                                              FT
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                             Existing without School AM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School AM
3: Hopkins St & Sacramento St                                                                                  5/19/2008    4: Hopkins St & Hopkins Ct                                                                                    5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL       NBR       SWL     SWR                                          Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR       SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                         Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         171    323     204         98      312     241                                         Volume (veh/h)                        0     267      547      4          4        6
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900      1900    1900                                         Sign Control                               Free     Free              Stop
Total Lost time (s)                  4.5            4.5        4.5      4.0                                                 Grade                                       0%       0%                0%
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00           1.00      1.00      1.00                                                 Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.91    0.91      0.90     0.90
Frt                                 0.91           1.00      0.85      0.94                                                 Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    297      601       4         4        7
Flt Protected                       0.98           0.95      1.00      0.97                                                 Pedestrians
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1669           1770      1583      1705                                                 Lane Width (ft)
Flt Permitted                       0.98           0.95      1.00      1.00                                                 Walking Speed (ft/s)
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1669           1770      1583      1753                                                 Percent Blockage
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92    0.95      0.95      0.90     0.90                                        Right turn flare (veh)
Adj. Flow (vph)                      186    351     215       103       347      268                                        Median type                                None    None
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 103      0       0          0       43        0                                        Median storage veh)
Lane Group Flow (vph)                434      0     215       103       572        0                                        Upstream signal (ft)                        164
Turn Type                                                  custom                                                           pX, platoon unblocked
Protected Phases                      2               4                   9                                                 vC, conflicting volume              605                                900      603
Permitted Phases                                                2         2                                                 vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Actuated Green, G (s)             22.0             22.0      22.0      31.0                                                 vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Effective Green, g (s)            22.0             22.0      22.0      31.0                                                 vCu, unblocked vol                  605                                900      603
Actuated g/C Ratio
Clearance Time (s)
Vehicle Extension (s)
Lane Grp Cap (vph)
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio
Uniform Delay, d1
Progression Factor
Incremental Delay, d2
Delay (s)
Level of Service
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio
Actuated Cycle Length (s)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)
c Critical Lane Group
                          RA      0.33
                                   4.5
                                   3.0
                                   556
                                 c0.26

                                    0.78
                                    19.8
                                    1.00
                                    10.4
                                    30.3
                                       C
                                    30.3
                                       C
                                                   0.33
                                                    4.5
                                                    3.0
                                                    590
                                                  c0.12

                                                   0.36
                                                   16.7
                                                   1.00
                                                    1.7
                                                   18.4
                                                      B
                                                   17.8
                                                      B


                                                    21.6
                                                    0.59
                                                    66.0
                                                  83.5%
                                                      15
                                                             0.33
                                                              4.5
                                                              3.0
                                                              528

                                                             0.07
                                                             0.20
                                                             15.7
                                                             1.00
                                                              0.8
                                                             16.5
                                                                B
                                                                       0.47
                                                                        4.0
                                                                        1.0
                                                                        817
                                                                      c0.10
                                                                       0.23
                                                                       0.70
                                                                       13.8
                                                                       1.00
                                                                        2.2
                                                                       16.1
                                                                          B
                                                                       16.1
                                                                          B


                                                                   HCM Level of Service

                                                                   Sum of lost time (s)
                                                                   ICU Level of Service
                                                                                                 C

                                                                                               13.0
                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                            tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                            tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                            tF (s)
                                                                                                                            p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                            cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                            Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                            Volume Total
                                                                                                                            Volume Left
                                                                                                                            Volume Right
                                                                                                                            cSH
                                                                                                                            Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                            Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                            Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                            Lane LOS
                                                                                                                            Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                            Approach LOS
                                                                                                                            Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                            Average Delay
                                                                                                                            Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                            Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                4.1

                                                                                                                                                                2.2
                                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                                                                                                972
                                                                                                                                                                EB 1
                                                                                                                                                                 297
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                 972
                                                                                                                                                                0.00
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                       WB 1
                                                                                                                                                                         605


                                                                                                                                                                       1700
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           4

                                                                                                                                                                        0.36
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                 400
                                                                                                                                                                                0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                14.2
                                                                                                                                                                                   B
                                                                                                                                                                                14.2
                                                                                                                                                                                   B


                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2
                                                                                                                                                                               39.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                    99
                                                                                                                                                                                                   309
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                             99
                                                                                                                                                                                                            499




                                                                                                                                                                                              ICU Level of Service         A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                            DMJM Harris                                                                                                                DMJM Harris
                                                                                                       FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                  Existing without School AM          HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School AM
5: Hopkins St & Monterey Ave                                                                                            5/19/2008    6: Albina Ave & Hopkins Ct                                                                                    5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        SBL2   SBL    SBR    NWL    NWR NWR2        Movement                            NBT    NBR      SBL    SBT        SWL     SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                  Lane Configurations
Sign Control                               Stop                       Stop                      Stop          Stop                   Volume (veh/h)                        13     4        4       7          4        3
Volume (vph)                         109    140       10        5      158       14        30     19    378      4      4       3    Sign Control                        Free                   Free       Stop
Peak Hour Factor                    0.94   0.94     0.94     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.90   0.90    0.90    Grade                                0%                     0%         0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               116    149       11        5      172       15        33     21    411      4      4       3    Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90       0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                                     Hourly flow rate (vph)                14      4       4       8          4        3
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1    NW 1
                                                                                                                                     Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   276     192      464      12                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                    116       5       33       4                                                                    Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    11      15      411       3                                                                    Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.10   -0.01    -0.48   -0.06                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.5     5.6      4.7     5.9                                                                    Median type                      None                      None
Degree Utilization, x               0.42    0.30     0.61    0.02                                                                    Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     607     592      722     502                                                                    Upstream signal (ft)
Control Delay (s)                   12.5    10.9     14.9     9.0                                                                    pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  12.5    10.9     14.9     9.0                                                                    vC, conflicting volume                               19                 33       17
Approach LOS                           B       B        B       A                                                                    vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                                 vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                13.3                                                                            vCu, unblocked vol                                    19                33       17
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       66.2%
                                                        B

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service                   C
                                                                                                                                     tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                                     tF (s)
                                                                                                                                     p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                                     cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                                     Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                                     Volume Total
                                                                                                                                     Volume Left
                                                                                                                                     Volume Right
                                                                                                                                     cSH
                                                                                                                                     Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                                     Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                                     Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                     Lane LOS
                                                                                                                                     Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                     Approach LOS
                                                                                                                                     Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                                     Average Delay
                                                                                                                                     Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                     Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                         NB 1
                                                                                                                                                                           19
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                         1700
                                                                                                                                                                         0.01
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                          0.0

                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                1598
                                                                                                                                                                                0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                 2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                 2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                          4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                         2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                         100
                                                                                                                                                                                        1598
                                                                                                                                                                                       SW 1



                                                                                                                                                                                       1012
                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                           3

                                                                                                                                                                                        0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                         8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                         8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                           A


                                                                                                                                                                                          2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                       13.9%
                                                                                                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                            977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1062




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ICU Level of Service         A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     DMJM Harris                                                                                                                DMJM Harris
                                                                                             FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School PM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Existing without School PM
1: Gilman St & Hopkins St                                                                                     5/19/2008    2: Hopkins St & Albina Ave                                                                                   5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NEL     NET      SWT      SWR                                          Movement                            WBL    WBR      SBL    SBR       NEL      NER
Lane Configurations                                                                                                        Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop      Stop                                                 Volume (veh/h)                       490     3        6     17          5      452
Volume (vph)                         348      9       14     107        98      412                                        Sign Control                        Free           Stop              Free
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90                                        Grade                                0%             0%                0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               387     10       16     119       109      458                                        Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                           Hourly flow rate (vph)               544      3       7      19         6      502
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NE 1    SW 1
                                                                                                                           Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   397     134     567                                                                   Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                      0      16     109                                                                   Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    10     119       0                                                                   Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.02   -0.47    0.07                                                                   Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.0     5.7     4.9                                                                   Median type                      None                               None
Degree Utilization, x               0.56    0.21    0.77                                                                   Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     688     573     723                                                                   Upstream signal (ft)                387
Control Delay (s)                   14.1    10.2    22.3                                                                   pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  14.1    10.2    22.3                                                                   vC, conflicting volume                             1059    546        548
Approach LOS                           B       B       C                                                                   vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                       vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                17.9                                                                  vCu, unblocked vol                                 1059    546        548
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       57.0%
                                                        C

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service         B
                                                                                                                           tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                           tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                           tF (s)
                                                                                                                           p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                           cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                           Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                           Volume Total
                                                                                                                           Volume Left
                                                                                                                           Volume Right
                                                                                                                           cSH
                                                                                                                           Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                           Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                           Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                           Lane LOS
                                                                                                                           Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                           Approach LOS
                                                                                                                           Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                           Average Delay

                                                                                                                           Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                           WB 1
                                                                                                                                                             548


                                                                                                                                                           1700




                                                                                                                           Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                               3

                                                                                                                                                            0.32
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                             0.0

                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                      SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                        26
                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                                                                                                                                       411
                                                                                                                                                                      0.06
                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                      14.3
                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                      14.3
                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                               6.4

                                                                                                                                                                               3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                97
                                                                                                                                                                               247
                                                                                                                                                                              NE 1
                                                                                                                                                                               508
                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                              1022
                                                                                                                                                                              0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                               0.2



                                                                                                                                                                                0.4
                                                                                                                                                                             68.9%
                                                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                      6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                      3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                       96
                                                                                                                                                                                      537
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  99
                                                                                                                                                                                                1022




                                                                                                                                                                                            ICU Level of Service         C




St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                           DMJM Harris                                                                                                               DMJM Harris
                                                                                              FT
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                             Existing without School PM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School PM
3: Hopkins St & Sacramento St                                                                                  5/19/2008    4: Hopkins St & Hopkins Ct                                                                                    5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL       NBR       SWL     SWR                                          Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR       SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                         Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         235    226     262       102       101     237                                         Volume (veh/h)                        2     331      342      4          2        3
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900      1900    1900                                         Sign Control                               Free     Free              Stop
Total Lost time (s)                  4.5            4.5        4.5      4.0                                                 Grade                                       0%       0%                0%
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00           1.00      1.00      1.00                                                 Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
Frt                                 0.93           1.00      0.85      0.91                                                 Hourly flow rate (vph)                 2    368      380       4         2        3
Flt Protected                       0.98           0.95      1.00      0.99                                                 Pedestrians
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1696           1770      1583      1662                                                 Lane Width (ft)
Flt Permitted                       0.98           0.95      1.00      1.00                                                 Walking Speed (ft/s)
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1696           1770      1583      1686                                                 Percent Blockage
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.90   0.90    0.90      0.90      0.90     0.90                                        Right turn flare (veh)
Adj. Flow (vph)                      261    251     291       113       112      263                                        Median type                                None    None
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  52      0       0          0      133        0                                        Median storage veh)
Lane Group Flow (vph)                460      0     291       113       242        0                                        Upstream signal (ft)                        164
Turn Type                                                  custom                                                           pX, platoon unblocked
Protected Phases                      2               4                   9                                                 vC, conflicting volume              384                                754      382
Permitted Phases                                                2         2                                                 vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Actuated Green, G (s)             22.0             22.0      22.0      29.7                                                 vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Effective Green, g (s)            22.0             22.0      22.0      29.7                                                 vCu, unblocked vol                  384                                754      382
Actuated g/C Ratio
Clearance Time (s)
Vehicle Extension (s)
Lane Grp Cap (vph)
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio
Uniform Delay, d1
Progression Factor
Incremental Delay, d2
Delay (s)
Level of Service
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio
Actuated Cycle Length (s)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)
c Critical Lane Group
                          RA      0.34
                                   4.5
                                   3.0
                                   577
                                 c0.27

                                    0.80
                                    19.3
                                    1.00
                                    10.9
                                    30.3
                                       C
                                    30.3
                                       C
                                                   0.34
                                                    4.5
                                                    3.0
                                                    602
                                                  c0.16

                                                   0.48
                                                   16.9
                                                   1.00
                                                    2.8
                                                   19.6
                                                      B
                                                   18.6
                                                      B


                                                    21.1
                                                    0.59
                                                    64.7
                                                  72.4%
                                                      15
                                                             0.34
                                                              4.5
                                                              3.0
                                                              538

                                                             0.07
                                                             0.21
                                                             15.2
                                                             1.00
                                                              0.9
                                                             16.1
                                                                B
                                                                       0.46
                                                                        4.0
                                                                        3.0
                                                                        771
                                                                      c0.04
                                                                       0.11
                                                                       0.31
                                                                       11.1
                                                                       1.00
                                                                        0.2
                                                                       11.3
                                                                          B
                                                                       11.3
                                                                          B


                                                                   HCM Level of Service

                                                                   Sum of lost time (s)
                                                                   ICU Level of Service
                                                                                                 C

                                                                                               13.0
                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                            tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                            tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                            tF (s)
                                                                                                                            p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                            cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                            Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                            Volume Total
                                                                                                                            Volume Left
                                                                                                                            Volume Right
                                                                                                                            cSH
                                                                                                                            Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                            Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                            Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                            Lane LOS
                                                                                                                            Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                            Approach LOS
                                                                                                                            Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                            Average Delay
                                                                                                                            Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                            Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                4.1

                                                                                                                                                                 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                 100
                                                                                                                                                                1174
                                                                                                                                                                EB 1
                                                                                                                                                                 370
                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                1174
                                                                                                                                                                0.00
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                       WB 1
                                                                                                                                                                         384


                                                                                                                                                                       1700
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                           4

                                                                                                                                                                        0.23
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                 509
                                                                                                                                                                                0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                12.2
                                                                                                                                                                                   B
                                                                                                                                                                                12.2
                                                                                                                                                                                   B


                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1
                                                                                                                                                                               29.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                    99
                                                                                                                                                                                                   376
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                             99
                                                                                                                                                                                                            665




                                                                                                                                                                                              ICU Level of Service         A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                            DMJM Harris                                                                                                                DMJM Harris
                                                                                                       FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                  Existing without School PM          HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing without School PM
5: Hopkins St & Monterey Ave                                                                                            5/19/2008    6: Albina Ave & Hopkins Ct                                                                                    5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        SBL2   SBL    SBR    NWL    NWR NWR2        Movement                            NBT    NBR      SBL    SBT        SWL     SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                  Lane Configurations
Sign Control                               Stop                       Stop                      Stop          Stop                   Volume (veh/h)                        18     5        0      24          3        3
Volume (vph)                         108    196       25       29      140       36        35     34    169     41     27       9    Sign Control                        Free                   Free       Stop
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90    Grade                                0%                     0%         0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               120    218       28       32      156       40        39     38    188     46     30      10    Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90       0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                                     Hourly flow rate (vph)                20      6       0      27          3        3
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1    NW 1
                                                                                                                                     Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   366     228      264      86                                                                    Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                    120      32       39      46                                                                    Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    28      40      188      10                                                                    Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.05   -0.04    -0.36    0.07                                                                    Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.3     5.4      5.3     6.1                                                                    Median type                      None                      None
Degree Utilization, x               0.54    0.34     0.39    0.14                                                                    Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     641     610      618     502                                                                    Upstream signal (ft)
Control Delay (s)                   14.4    11.3     11.7    10.1                                                                    pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  14.4    11.3     11.7    10.1                                                                    vC, conflicting volume                               26                 49       23
Approach LOS                           B       B        B       B                                                                    vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                                 vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                12.5                                                                            vCu, unblocked vol                                    26                49       23
HCM Level of Service




                          RA
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)
                                                   61.0%
                                                        B

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service                   B
                                                                                                                                     tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                                     tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                                     tF (s)
                                                                                                                                     p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                                     cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                                     Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                                     Volume Total
                                                                                                                                     Volume Left
                                                                                                                                     Volume Right
                                                                                                                                     cSH
                                                                                                                                     Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                                     Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                                     Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                     Lane LOS
                                                                                                                                     Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                     Approach LOS
                                                                                                                                     Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                                     Average Delay
                                                                                                                                     Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                     Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                         NB 1
                                                                                                                                                                           26
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                         1700
                                                                                                                                                                         0.02
                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                          0.0

                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                1589
                                                                                                                                                                                0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                          4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                         2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                         100
                                                                                                                                                                                        1589
                                                                                                                                                                                       SW 1



                                                                                                                                                                                       1005
                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                           3

                                                                                                                                                                                        0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                         8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                         8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                           A


                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                       13.3%
                                                                                                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                            960
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1054




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ICU Level of Service         A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     DMJM Harris                                                                                                                DMJM Harris
                                                                                          FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School AM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Existing with School AM
1: Gilman St & Hopkins St                                                                                  5/19/2008    2: Hopkins St & Albina Ave                                                                                5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NEL     NET      SWT      SWR                                       Movement                            WBL    WBR      SBL    SBR       NEL      NER
Lane Configurations                                                                                                     Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop      Stop                                              Volume (veh/h)                       346    53       37     40         63      431
Volume (vph)                         380     14       13     116       152      239                                     Sign Control                        Free           Stop              Free
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90                                     Grade                                0%             0%                0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               422     16       14     129       169      266                                     Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                        Hourly flow rate (vph)               384     59      41      44        70      479
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NE 1    SW 1
                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   438     143     434                                                                Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                      0      14     169                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    16     129       0                                                                Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.01   -0.49    0.11                                                                Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                4.9     5.5     5.0                                                                Median type                      None                               None
Degree Utilization, x               0.59    0.22    0.60                                                                Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     711     576     703                                                                Upstream signal (ft)                387
Control Delay (s)                   14.8    10.0    15.2                                                                pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  14.8    10.0    15.2                                                                vC, conflicting volume                             1033    414        443
Approach LOS                           B       A       C                                                                vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                    vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                14.3                                                               vCu, unblocked vol                                 1033    414        443
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       51.2%
                                                        B

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service      A
                                                                                                                        tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                        tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                        tF (s)
                                                                                                                        p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                        cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                        Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                        Volume Total
                                                                                                                        Volume Left
                                                                                                                        Volume Right
                                                                                                                        cSH
                                                                                                                        Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                        Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                        Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                        Lane LOS
                                                                                                                        Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                        Approach LOS
                                                                                                                        Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                        Average Delay

                                                                                                                        Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                        WB 1
                                                                                                                                                          443

                                                                                                                                                           59
                                                                                                                                                        1700




                                                                                                                        Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                         0.26
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                          0.0

                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                   SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                     86
                                                                                                                                                                     41
                                                                                                                                                                     44
                                                                                                                                                                    357
                                                                                                                                                                   0.24
                                                                                                                                                                     23
                                                                                                                                                                   18.2
                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                   18.2
                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                            6.4

                                                                                                                                                                            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                             83
                                                                                                                                                                            241
                                                                                                                                                                           NE 1
                                                                                                                                                                            549
                                                                                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                           1117
                                                                                                                                                                           0.06
                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                            1.7
                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                            1.7



                                                                                                                                                                             2.3
                                                                                                                                                                          67.0%
                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                                                                                                   6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                   3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                    93
                                                                                                                                                                                   638
                                                                                                                                                                                              4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                               94
                                                                                                                                                                                             1117




                                                                                                                                                                                         ICU Level of Service      C




St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                        DMJM Harris                                                                                                            DMJM Harris
                                                                                           FT
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                             Existing with School AM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School AM
3: Hopkins St & Sacramento St                                                                               5/19/2008    4: Hopkins St & Hopkins Ct                                                                                 5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL       NBR       SWL     SWR                                       Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR       SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                      Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         182    288     166         85      301     230                                      Volume (veh/h)                        5     270      520      4          7        8
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900      1900    1900                                      Sign Control                               Free     Free              Stop
Total Lost time (s)                  4.5            4.5        4.5      4.0                                              Grade                                       0%       0%                0%
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00           1.00      1.00      1.00                                              Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
Frt                                 0.92           1.00      0.85      0.94                                              Hourly flow rate (vph)                 6    300      578       4         8        9
Flt Protected                       0.98           0.95      1.00      0.97                                              Pedestrians
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1676           1770      1583      1705                                              Lane Width (ft)
Flt Permitted                       0.98           0.95      1.00      1.00                                              Walking Speed (ft/s)
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1676           1770      1583      1754                                              Percent Blockage
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.90   0.90    0.90      0.90      0.90     0.90                                     Right turn flare (veh)
Adj. Flow (vph)                      202    320     184         94      334      256                                     Median type                                None    None
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  87      0       0          0       42        0                                     Median storage veh)
Lane Group Flow (vph)                435      0     184         94      548        0                                     Upstream signal (ft)                        164
Turn Type                                                  custom                                                        pX, platoon unblocked
Protected Phases                      2               4                   9                                              vC, conflicting volume              582                                891      580
Permitted Phases                                                2         2                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Actuated Green, G (s)             22.0             22.0      22.0      31.0                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Effective Green, g (s)            22.0             22.0      22.0      31.0                                              vCu, unblocked vol                  582                                891      580
Actuated g/C Ratio
Clearance Time (s)
Vehicle Extension (s)
Lane Grp Cap (vph)
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio
Uniform Delay, d1
Progression Factor
Incremental Delay, d2
Delay (s)
Level of Service
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio
Actuated Cycle Length (s)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)
c Critical Lane Group
                          RA      0.33
                                   4.5
                                   3.0
                                   559
                                 c0.26

                                    0.78
                                    19.8
                                    1.00
                                    10.3
                                    30.1
                                       C
                                    30.1
                                       C
                                                   0.33
                                                    4.5
                                                    3.0
                                                    590
                                                  c0.10

                                                   0.31
                                                   16.4
                                                   1.00
                                                    1.4
                                                   17.7
                                                      B
                                                   17.3
                                                      B


                                                    21.2
                                                    0.57
                                                    66.0
                                                  78.6%
                                                      15
                                                             0.33
                                                              4.5
                                                              3.0
                                                              528

                                                             0.06
                                                             0.18
                                                             15.6
                                                             1.00
                                                              0.7
                                                             16.3
                                                                B
                                                                       0.47
                                                                        4.0
                                                                        1.0
                                                                        817
                                                                      c0.09
                                                                       0.22
                                                                       0.67
                                                                       13.5
                                                                       1.00
                                                                        1.7
                                                                       15.3
                                                                          B
                                                                       15.3
                                                                          B


                                                                   HCM Level of Service

                                                                   Sum of lost time (s)
                                                                   ICU Level of Service
                                                                                              C

                                                                                            13.0
                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                         tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                         tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                         tF (s)
                                                                                                                         p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                         cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                         Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                         Volume Total
                                                                                                                         Volume Left
                                                                                                                         Volume Right
                                                                                                                         cSH
                                                                                                                         Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                         Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                         Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                         Lane LOS
                                                                                                                         Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                         Approach LOS
                                                                                                                         Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                         Average Delay
                                                                                                                         Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                         Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                             4.1

                                                                                                                                                             2.2
                                                                                                                                                              99
                                                                                                                                                             992
                                                                                                                                                             EB 1
                                                                                                                                                              306
                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                              992
                                                                                                                                                             0.01
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                    WB 1
                                                                                                                                                                      582


                                                                                                                                                                    1700
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                        4

                                                                                                                                                                     0.34
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                      0.0

                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                             SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                              394
                                                                                                                                                                             0.04
                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                             14.5
                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                                             14.5
                                                                                                                                                                                B


                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                            37.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 97
                                                                                                                                                                                                311
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          98
                                                                                                                                                                                                         514




                                                                                                                                                                                           ICU Level of Service      A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                         DMJM Harris                                                                                                             DMJM Harris
                                                                                                        FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Existing with School AM         HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School AM
5: Hopkins St & Monterey Ave                                                                                              5/19/2008    6: Albina Ave & Hopkins Ct                                                                                 5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        SBL2   SBL     SBR     NWL    NWR NWR2        Movement                            NBT    NBR      SBL    SBT        SWL     SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                    Lane Configurations
Sign Control                               Stop                       Stop                      Stop            Stop                   Volume (veh/h)                       148    11        2      88          5        4
Volume (vph)                         105    147       17        1      126       14        33      9      393      8      1       3    Sign Control                        Free                   Free       Stop
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90   0.90     0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90    Grade                                0%                     0%         0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               117    163       19        1      140       16        37     10      437      9      1       3    Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90       0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                                       Hourly flow rate (vph)               164     12       2      98          6        4
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1    NW 1
                                                                                                                                       Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   299     157      483      13                                                                      Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                    117       1       37       9                                                                      Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    19      16      437       3                                                                      Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.07   -0.02    -0.49    0.02                                                                      Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.5     5.6      4.7     6.0                                                                      Median type                      None                      None
Degree Utilization, x               0.46    0.25     0.63    0.02                                                                      Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     613     578      730     501                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
Control Delay (s)                   13.0    10.5     15.4     9.1                                                                      pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  13.0    10.5     15.4     9.1                                                                      vC, conflicting volume                              177                273      171
Approach LOS                           B       B        C       A                                                                      vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                                   vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                13.8                                                                              vCu, unblocked vol                                  177                273      171
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       65.4%
                                                        B

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service                     C
                                                                                                                                       tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                                       tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                                       tF (s)
                                                                                                                                       p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                                       cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                                       Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                                       Volume Total
                                                                                                                                       Volume Left
                                                                                                                                       Volume Right
                                                                                                                                       cSH
                                                                                                                                       Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                                       Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                                       Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                       Lane LOS
                                                                                                                                       Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                       Approach LOS
                                                                                                                                       Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                                       Average Delay
                                                                                                                                       Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                       Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                           NB 1
                                                                                                                                                                            177
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                           1700
                                                                                                                                                                           0.10
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                            0.0

                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                  SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  1399
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                           2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           100
                                                                                                                                                                                          1399
                                                                                                                                                                                         SW 1
                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                           778
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                           9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                           9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                             A


                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                         18.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                               99
                                                                                                                                                                                                              716
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       873




                                                                                                                                                                                                         ICU Level of Service      A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       DMJM Harris                                                                                                             DMJM Harris
                                                                                          FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School PM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                         Existing with School PM
1: Gilman St & Hopkins St                                                                                  5/19/2008    2: Hopkins St & Albina Ave                                                                                5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NEL     NET      SWT      SWR                                       Movement                            WBL    WBR      SBL    SBR       NEL      NER
Lane Configurations                                                                                                     Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop      Stop                                              Volume (veh/h)                       407    17       23     42         38      428
Volume (vph)                         341     11       11     131        97      350                                     Sign Control                        Free           Stop              Free
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90                                     Grade                                0%             0%                0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               379     12       12     146       108      389                                     Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                        Hourly flow rate (vph)               452     19      26      47        42      476
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NE 1    SW 1
                                                                                                                        Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   391     158     497                                                                Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                      0      12     108                                                                Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    12     146       0                                                                Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.02   -0.50    0.08                                                                Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.0     5.5     5.0                                                                Median type                      None                               None
Degree Utilization, x               0.55    0.24    0.68                                                                Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     689     574     710                                                                Upstream signal (ft)                387
Control Delay (s)                   13.9    10.3    18.0                                                                pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  13.9    10.3    18.0                                                                vC, conflicting volume                             1022    462        471
Approach LOS                           B       B       C                                                                vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                    vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                15.3                                                               vCu, unblocked vol                                 1022    462        471
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       52.9%
                                                        C

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service      A
                                                                                                                        tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                        tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                        tF (s)
                                                                                                                        p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                        cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                        Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                        Volume Total
                                                                                                                        Volume Left
                                                                                                                        Volume Right
                                                                                                                        cSH
                                                                                                                        Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                        Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                        Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                        Lane LOS
                                                                                                                        Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                        Approach LOS
                                                                                                                        Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                        Average Delay

                                                                                                                        Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                        WB 1
                                                                                                                                                          471

                                                                                                                                                           19
                                                                                                                                                        1700




                                                                                                                        Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                         0.28
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                          0.0

                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                   SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                     72
                                                                                                                                                                     26
                                                                                                                                                                     47
                                                                                                                                                                    403
                                                                                                                                                                   0.18
                                                                                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                                                   15.9
                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                   15.9
                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                            6.4

                                                                                                                                                                            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                             90
                                                                                                                                                                            251
                                                                                                                                                                           NE 1
                                                                                                                                                                            518
                                                                                                                                                                             42
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                           1091
                                                                                                                                                                           0.04
                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                            1.1



                                                                                                                                                                             1.6
                                                                                                                                                                          66.0%
                                                                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                                                                                                   6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                   3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                    92
                                                                                                                                                                                   600
                                                                                                                                                                                              4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                               96
                                                                                                                                                                                             1091




                                                                                                                                                                                         ICU Level of Service      C




St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                        DMJM Harris                                                                                                            DMJM Harris
                                                                                           FT
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                             Existing with School PM        HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School PM
3: Hopkins St & Sacramento St                                                                               5/19/2008    4: Hopkins St & Hopkins Ct                                                                                 5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL       NBR       SWL     SWR                                       Movement                            EBL     EBT     WBT     WBR       SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                      Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         257    195     207         88       91     209                                      Volume (veh/h)                        3     339      293     11          6        5
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900      1900    1900                                      Sign Control                               Free     Free              Stop
Total Lost time (s)                  4.5            4.5        4.5      4.0                                              Grade                                       0%       0%                0%
Lane Util. Factor                   1.00           1.00      1.00      1.00                                              Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90
Frt                                 0.94           1.00      0.85      0.91                                              Hourly flow rate (vph)                 3    377      326      12         7        6
Flt Protected                       0.97           0.95      1.00      0.99                                              Pedestrians
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1706           1770      1583      1662                                              Lane Width (ft)
Flt Permitted                       0.97           0.95      1.00      1.00                                              Walking Speed (ft/s)
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1706           1770      1583      1688                                              Percent Blockage
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.90   0.90    0.90      0.90      0.90     0.90                                     Right turn flare (veh)
Adj. Flow (vph)                      286    217     230         98      101      232                                     Median type                                None    None
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  40      0       0          0      129        0                                     Median storage veh)
Lane Group Flow (vph)                463      0     230         98      204        0                                     Upstream signal (ft)                        164
Turn Type                                                  custom                                                        pX, platoon unblocked
Protected Phases                      2               4                   9                                              vC, conflicting volume              338                                715      332
Permitted Phases                                                2         2                                              vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Actuated Green, G (s)             22.0             22.0      22.0      27.9                                              vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Effective Green, g (s)            22.0             22.0      22.0      27.9                                              vCu, unblocked vol                  338                                715      332
Actuated g/C Ratio
Clearance Time (s)
Vehicle Extension (s)
Lane Grp Cap (vph)
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm
v/c Ratio
Uniform Delay, d1
Progression Factor
Incremental Delay, d2
Delay (s)
Level of Service
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio
Actuated Cycle Length (s)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)
c Critical Lane Group
                          RA      0.35
                                   4.5
                                   3.0
                                   597
                                 c0.27

                                    0.78
                                    18.2
                                    1.00
                                     9.5
                                    27.7
                                       C
                                    27.7
                                       C
                                                   0.35
                                                    4.5
                                                    3.0
                                                    619
                                                  c0.13

                                                   0.37
                                                   15.3
                                                   1.00
                                                    1.7
                                                   17.0
                                                      B
                                                   16.4
                                                      B


                                                    19.8
                                                    0.54
                                                    62.9
                                                  66.4%
                                                      15
                                                             0.35
                                                              4.5
                                                              3.0
                                                              554

                                                             0.06
                                                             0.18
                                                             14.2
                                                             1.00
                                                              0.7
                                                             14.9
                                                                B
                                                                       0.44
                                                                        4.0
                                                                        1.0
                                                                        746
                                                                      c0.03
                                                                       0.10
                                                                       0.27
                                                                       11.1
                                                                       1.00
                                                                        0.1
                                                                       11.2
                                                                          B
                                                                       11.2
                                                                          B


                                                                   HCM Level of Service

                                                                   Sum of lost time (s)
                                                                   ICU Level of Service
                                                                                              B

                                                                                            13.0
                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                         tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                         tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                         tF (s)
                                                                                                                         p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                         cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                         Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                         Volume Total
                                                                                                                         Volume Left
                                                                                                                         Volume Right
                                                                                                                         cSH
                                                                                                                         Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                         Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                         Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                         Lane LOS
                                                                                                                         Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                         Approach LOS
                                                                                                                         Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                         Average Delay
                                                                                                                         Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                         Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                             4.1

                                                                                                                                                              2.2
                                                                                                                                                              100
                                                                                                                                                             1221
                                                                                                                                                             EB 1
                                                                                                                                                              380
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                             1221
                                                                                                                                                             0.00
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                    WB 1
                                                                                                                                                                      338
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                    1700
                                                                                                                                                                     0.20
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                      0.0

                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                             SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                              496
                                                                                                                                                                             0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                             12.4
                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                                             12.4
                                                                                                                                                                                B


                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                            30.2%
                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                                                                                                                                                                396
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          99
                                                                                                                                                                                                         710




                                                                                                                                                                                           ICU Level of Service      A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                         DMJM Harris                                                                                                             DMJM Harris
                                                                                                        FT
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Existing with School PM         HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                          Existing with School PM
5: Hopkins St & Monterey Ave                                                                                              5/19/2008    6: Albina Ave & Hopkins Ct                                                                                 5/19/2008



Movement                            EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        SBL2   SBL     SBR     NWL    NWR NWR2        Movement                            NBT    NBR      SBL    SBT        SWL     SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                    Lane Configurations
Sign Control                               Stop                       Stop                      Stop            Stop                   Volume (veh/h)                        46     4        4      53          7        5
Volume (vph)                         126    168       22       18      121       16        31     16      132     38     26      25    Sign Control                        Free                   Free       Stop
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90   0.90     0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90    Grade                                0%                     0%         0%
Hourly flow rate (vph)               140    187       24       20      134       18        34     18      147     42     29      28    Peak Hour Factor                    0.90   0.90    0.90    0.90       0.90     0.90
                                                                                                                                       Hourly flow rate (vph)                51      4       4      59          8        6
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     SB 1    NW 1
                                                                                                                                       Pedestrians
Volume Total (vph)                   351     172      199      99                                                                      Lane Width (ft)
Volume Left (vph)                    140      20       34      42                                                                      Walking Speed (ft/s)
Volume Right (vph)                    24      18      147      28                                                                      Percent Blockage
Hadj (s)                            0.07    0.00    -0.37   -0.05                                                                      Right turn flare (veh)
Departure Headway (s)                5.0     5.2      5.1     5.6                                                                      Median type                      None                      None
Degree Utilization, x               0.49    0.25     0.28    0.15                                                                      Median storage veh)
Capacity (veh/h)                     680     636      644     567                                                                      Upstream signal (ft)
Control Delay (s)                   12.8     9.9     10.0     9.6                                                                      pX, platoon unblocked
Approach Delay (s)                  12.8     9.9     10.0     9.6                                                                      vC, conflicting volume                               56                121       53
Approach LOS                           B       A        B       A                                                                      vC1, stage 1 conf vol
Intersection Summary                                                                                                                   vC2, stage 2 conf vol
Delay                                                11.1                                                                              vCu, unblocked vol                                    56               121       53
HCM Level of Service
Intersection Capacity Utilization
Analysis Period (min)




                          RA                       54.8%
                                                        B

                                                       15
                                                                  ICU Level of Service                     A
                                                                                                                                       tC, single (s)
                                                                                                                                       tC, 2 stage (s)
                                                                                                                                       tF (s)
                                                                                                                                       p0 queue free %
                                                                                                                                       cM capacity (veh/h)
                                                                                                                                       Direction, Lane #
                                                                                                                                       Volume Total
                                                                                                                                       Volume Left
                                                                                                                                       Volume Right
                                                                                                                                       cSH
                                                                                                                                       Volume to Capacity
                                                                                                                                       Queue Length 95th (ft)
                                                                                                                                       Control Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                       Lane LOS
                                                                                                                                       Approach Delay (s)
                                                                                                                                       Approach LOS
                                                                                                                                       Intersection Summary
                                                                                                                                       Average Delay
                                                                                                                                       Intersection Capacity Utilization
                                                                                                                                       Analysis Period (min)
                                                                                                                                                                           NB 1
                                                                                                                                                                             56
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                           1700
                                                                                                                                                                           0.03
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                            0.0

                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                  SB 1
                                                                                                                                                                                    63
                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  1549
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                            4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                           2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           100
                                                                                                                                                                                          1549
                                                                                                                                                                                         SW 1
                                                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                           926
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                           8.9
                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                           8.9
                                                                                                                                                                                             A


                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                         16.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                               99
                                                                                                                                                                                                              872
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1014




                                                                                                                                                                                                         ICU Level of Service      A




St. Mary's College High School                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report   St. Mary's College High School                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       DMJM Harris                                                                                                             DMJM Harris
