Traffic Operations and Safety
Analysis
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-
Platteville Boulevard Interchange
Improvements

Pueblo, Colorado

SEH Project No. 103325-PUEBL
City of Pueblo Project No. 07-054 (DT0802)
CDOT Project No. HPP 0251-331 (16640)


May 24, 2010
Prepared By:
Short Elliott Hendrickson, Inc.
2000 South Colorado Boulevard, Suite 6000
Colorado Center Tower One
Denver, CO 80222
Phil Weisbach, PE, Project Manager
Will Johnson, PE, PTOE Traffic Engineer

Prepared for:
City of Pueblo.
211 E. D Street
Pueblo, CO 81003

In Cooperation With:
Colorado Department of Transportation
Region 2
905 Erie Avenue
Pueblo, CO 81002

Federal Highway Administration
Colorado Division
12300 W. Dakota Avenue Suite 180
Lakewood, CO 80228
                                              Table of Contents

                                                                                                                        Page
    Executive Summary ................................................................................................ 1 
    1.0     Introduction ................................................................................................... 5 
            1.1 Purpose and Need................................................................................... 6 
    2.0     Traffic Operations Methodology .................................................................. 7 
            2.1 Environmental Assessment Evaluation Criteria ....................................... 8 
            2.2 Highway Capacity Software Assumptions and Defaults .......................... 9 
            2.3 Travel Demand Model Projections......................................................... 10 
            2.4 Travel Demand Model Output Review ................................................... 11 
            2.5 Traffic Operations Analysis .................................................................... 11 
                 2.5.1 Existing Conditions (Year 2008) Operations Analysis ................. 13 
                 2.5.2 No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Operations Analysis ... 14 
                 2.5.3 Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Operations
                        Analysis ...................................................................................... 15 
                 2.5.4 No-Action - Design Year (2035) Operations Analysis ................. 17 
                 2.5.5 Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) Operations Analysis....... 18 
            2.6 Sensitivity Analysis ................................................................................ 21 
                 2.6.1 HCS Input Sensitivity Analysis .................................................... 21 
                 2.6.2 Variability of PACOG Travel Demand Model Volumes ............... 22 
    3.0     Crash and Safety Analysis ......................................................................... 22 
    4.0     The Case for Connectivity .......................................................................... 24 
            4.1 Travel Choices and Directness of Travel ............................................... 24 
            4.2 Travel Volume Changes Experienced vs. Those Expected ................... 25 
    5.0     Conclusions ................................................................................................. 26 
            5.1 Summary of Traffic Analysis Findings ................................................... 26 
                5.1.1 Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) ......................... 26 
                5.1.2 Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) ...................................... 27 
            5.2 Summary of Connectivity Findings ........................................................ 28 
            5.3 Overall Conclusion ................................................................................ 28 




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                 i                                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                               May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                Table of Contents (Continued)



                                                   List of Tables
    Table 1 ­ AM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service 
    Table 2 ­ PM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service 




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard        ii                     103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                Table of Contents (Continued)

                                                   List of Figures
    Figure 1 ­ Vicinity Map
    Figure 2 ­ Study Area
    Figure 3 ­ Proposed Action
    Figure 4 ­ Alternatives Evaluated
    Figure 5 ­ Alternatives Screening
    Figure 6 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes
    Figure 7 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Laneage
    Figure 8 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and
                      Arterial Turning Movements
    Figure 9 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection
                      Level of Service
    Figure 10 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Average Daily
                      Traffic Volumes
    Figure 11 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Laneage
    Figure 12 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Peak Hour
                      Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
    Figure 13 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Mainline I-25,
                      Ramp and Intersection Level of Service
    Figure 14 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area
                      Average Daily Traffic Volumes
    Figure 15 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area
                      Laneage
    Figure 16 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Peak
                      Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
    Figure 17 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area
                      Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service
    Figure 18 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Average Daily Traffic
                      Volumes
    Figure 19 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Laneage
    Figure 20 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-
                      25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
    Figure 21 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area, Mainline I-25, Ramp
                      and Intersection Level of Service
    Figure 22 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Average Daily
                      Traffic Volumes
    Figure 23 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Laneage
    Figure 24 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Peak Hour
                      Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         iii                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                         May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                Table of Contents (Continued)

    Figure 25 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Mainline I-25,
                    Ramp and Intersection Level of Service


                                              List of Appendices
    Appendix A             Travel Demand Modeling Assumptions and PACOG Concurrence
                           Letter
    Appendix B             Traffic Count Data
    Appendix C             Highway Capacity Manual Level of Service Worksheets
    Appendix D             Figures A ­ H and Table A




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard     iv                      103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                         May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                      Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis

         I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard
                   Interchange Improvements


         Executive Summary
             This traffic operations and safety analysis summarizes the effects of a proposed project
             to modify the existing I-25/Eden diamond interchange to a split diamond, with the north
             half at Eden and the south half at a new location where Dillon Drive will cross I-25.
             Figure 1 shows the location of the project in relation to the City of Pueblo. Figure 2
             illustrates the project Study Area.            Figure 3 illustrates the Proposed
             Action/Recommended Alternative. This is not a new access point to I-25. It is simply a
             modification of the existing access.
             This proposed modification to the access to I-25 would require construction of a new
             bridge over I-25 at Dillon Drive and new on- and off-ramps to I-25 south of that bridge.
             These new ramps at Dillon Drive would replace the existing south ramps at I-25/Eden
             interchange which would be removed. The existing I-25 frontage road along the west
             side of I-25 will maintain the existing two-way connection between the south half of this
             interchange at Dillon Drive with the north half at Platteville Boulevard. In addition, a new
             northbound one-way ramp on the east side of I-25 from Dillon Drive to Platteville will be
             built to provide additional regional connectivity.
             The purpose of the project is to provide regional connectivity to I-25 to accommodate
             existing and planned growth along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard west of I-25.
             This regional connectivity is envisioned by the Pueblo Area Council of Governments
             (PACOG) in the 2035 Long Range Transportation Plan. The need for more efficient and
             direct access to/from I-25 has been recognized by local agencies for many years.
             Several plans and previous studies have identified the need to enhance connectivity
             between Pueblo West and I-25.

             To address the requirements of the Federal Highways Administration (FHWA) Interstate
             Access Request (IAR) and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
             Procedural Directive 1601 requirements for a System Level Study (SLS), this traffic
             operations analysis must evaluate if the Proposed Action to modify the existing full
             interchange at Platteville Boulevard to a split diamond interchange at Eden-Platteville
             Boulevard and Dillon Drive, can be accomplished in a manner that "... does not have a
             significant adverse impact on the safety and operation of the Interstate facility based on
             an analysis of current and future traffic."
             Per guidance in the IAR and the SLS, the future traffic scenarios to be evaluated are:
                · the implementation year ­ in this case, 2017 as directed by FHWA and CDOT ­
                    and
                · the design year, 2035, which is the long range planning horizon for PACOG.



I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         1                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                       May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
             In order to assess the effect of the proposed split diamond interchange on the future
             traffic operations within the study area, the following five separate traffic operations
             scenarios were analyzed. These five scenarios are as follows:

             ·     Existing Conditions (Year 2008) ­ Current day peak hour morning and evening
                   traffic volumes and roadway network.

             ·     No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) - Projected Year 2017 peak hour
                   morning and evening traffic volumes and existing (Year 2008) roadway network.

             ·     Proposed Action - Implementation Year (2017) - Projected Year 2017 peak hour
                   morning and evening traffic volumes and an updated PACOG approved roadway
                   network with the proposed split diamond interchange.

             ·     No-Action - Design Year (2035) - Projected Year 2035 peak hour morning and
                   evening traffic volumes and PACOG approved roadway network.

             ·     Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) - Projected Year 2035 peak hour morning
                   and evening traffic volumes and updated PACOG approved roadway network with
                   the proposed split diamond interchange.
             The traffic operations for the five above scenarios were analyzed with the Highway
             Capacity Software computer program (HCS 2000 version 4.1f) which utilizes the
             methodologies contained in the Highway Capacity Manual. The Level of Service (LOS)
             was calculated for mainline I-25, I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas, and intersections within
             the study area in order to provide a point of comparison between the No-Action and
             Proposed Action scenarios.
             Traffic projections utilized for the traffic operations analysis for the No-Action ­
             Implementation Year (2017), Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017), No-Action
             ­ Design Year (2035) and Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) analyses were
             developed utilizing the Pueblo Area Council of Governments (PACOG) approved travel
             demand model. Modifications were made to the roadway network within the travel
             demand model in order to take into account development that is anticipated to occur
             within the study area by Year 2017 and Year 2035. The PACOG concurs with the
             methodology and results of these traffic projections.
             Existing Conditions (Year 2008)
             The results of the Existing Conditions (Year 2008) traffic operations analysis indicate
             that all freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections are operating
             well at LOS B or better with the exception of the unsignalized intersection of Eagleridge
             Boulevard / Dillon Drive during the evening peak period which operates at LOS D.
             Based on the results, the current roadway network within the study area has sufficient
             capacity to accommodate the existing volume of traffic during the morning and evening
             peak periods.
             No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017)
             The results of the traffic operations analysis of the No-Action Implementation Year
             (2017) condition indicate that all freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas and
             intersections operate well at LOS C or better. Based on the results, the current roadway
             network within the study area has sufficient capacity to accommodate the No-Action -
             Implementation Year (2017) volume of traffic during the morning and evening peak
             periods.
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         2                                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                        May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
             Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017)
             The results of the Proposed Action - Implementation Year (2017) analysis indicate an
             overall improvement in freeway and intersection operations when compared to the No-
             Action (Year 2017) scenario. All I-25 freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas, and
             the local street intersections all operate at LOS C or better during the morning and
             evening peak periods.
             No-Action ­ Design Year (2035)
             The results of the No-Action (Year 2035) traffic operations analysis indicate that the
             volume of traffic on southbound I-25 within the study area begins to exceed the capacity
             of the interstate during the morning peak period resulting in merge/diverge points for
             southbound I-25 at Eagleridge Boulevard, and southbound I-25 south of Eagleridge
             Boulevard operating poorly at LOS F. Southbound I-25 between Platteville/Eden and
             Eagleridge Boulevard operates at LOS E. The morning peak period capacity issue is
             also experienced on the local street network at the intersection of Eagleridge Boulevard /
             Elizabeth Street, which is anticipated to operate poorly at LOS E. The remainder of the
             freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections in the study area are
             anticipated to operate well at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak
             periods.
             The results indicate that additional capacity is required on southbound I-25 and at the
             intersection of Eagleridge Boulevard / Elizabeth Street to accommodate the volume of
             traffic anticipated in Year 2035. However, the remainder of the roadway network within
             the study area is anticipated to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the volume of
             traffic anticipated in Year 2035.
             Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035)
             The results of the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) traffic operations analysis
             indicate that the volume of traffic on southbound I-25 within the study area begins to
             exceed the capacity of the interstate during the morning peak period resulting in
             merge/diverge points for southbound I-25 at Eagleridge Boulevard, and southbound I-25
             south of Eagleridge Boulevard operating poorly at LOS F. Southbound I-25 between
             Dillon Drive and Eagleridge Boulevard operates at LOS E. The remainder of the
             freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections in the study area are
             anticipated to operate well at LOS D or better during both the morning and evening peak
             periods.
             The results of the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) traffic operations analysis
             shows improvement in both the local street network and two I-25 ramps compared to the
             No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario. Overall, when compared to the No-Action ­
             Design Year (2035) scenario the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) LOS either
             stays the same or improves by one letter grade.
             Conclusions
               · There is adequate network capacity for both the No-Action and Proposed Action
                   alternatives in the 2017 scenario. All freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge,
                   and intersections within the study area operate at LOC C or better for both the
                   No-Action and Proposed Action scenarios.

                  ·   The 2017 Proposed Action alternative resulted in better traffic operations on one
                      freeway segment, one ramp merge point, and at one location on the local
                      roadway network compared to the No-Action alternative. In no instance is the
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         3                                103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                     May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                      LOS worse with the Proposed Action than with the No-Action alternative. In all
                      other instances, the LOS remains the same.

                  ·   The 2035 Proposed Action alternative resulted in better traffic operations at one
                      ramp diverge point and for five intersection instances compared to the No-Action
                      alternative. In no instance is the LOS worse with the Proposed Action than with
                      the No-Action alternative. In all other instances, the LOS remains the same.

                  ·   There is less than adequate network capacity for both the 2035 No-Action and
                      Proposed Action scenarios. Both scenarios demonstrate LOS E or F in multiple
                      locations. Five locations are LOS E or worse for the 2035 No-Action scenario.
                      Four locations are LOS E or worse in the 2035 Proposed Action scenario. All LOS
                      problems are found in the morning peak period. The traffic analysis indicates that
                      the primary cause of these LOS failures is lack of southbound capacity on I-25 in
                      the morning peak.
             Therefore, it is concluded that constructing the Proposed Action will result in improved
             study area operations in multiple instances and no degradation of operations in any
             instance compared to the No-Action alternative in both the Implementation Year of 2017
             and the Design Year of 2035.
             The Case for Improved Connectivity
             The Purpose and Need describes the need to provide regional connectivity to I-25 to
             accommodate existing and planned growth along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard
             west of I-25. The number of route choices and directness of routes to/from I-25 and the
             northwest and west in the 2017 and 2035 No Action scenario were compared with the
             number of route choices and directness of routes to/from I-25 with the 2017 and 2035
             Proposed Action scenario. It is concluded that the Proposed Action provides more and
             more direct travel routes to/from I-25 and areas to the northwest and west. Traffic
             volume changes that result from the Proposed Action were compared to traffic volume
             changes that should be expected if the regional connectivity were increased. The traffic
             volume changes with the Proposed Action were in alignment with those that should be
             expected. As a result of this analysis, it is concluded that the Proposed Action provides
             the improved regional connectivity that is desired to accommodate existing and planned
             growth along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard west of I-25, and thus satisfies the
             Purpose and Need.
             Overall Conclusion
             Given this information, it is concluded that the Proposed Action satisfies the FHWA and
             CDOT requirements in the IAR and SLS (respectively) because the Proposed Action to
             modify the existing full interchange at Platteville Boulevard to a split diamond
             interchange at Platteville Boulevard and Dillon Drive can be accomplished in a manner
             that "... does not have a significant adverse impact on the safety and operation of the
             Interstate facility based on an analysis of current and future traffic." And, based on the
             connectivity analysis, it is further concluded that the Proposed Action satisfies the
             Purpose and Need for improved regional connectivity desired to accommodate existing
             and planned growth along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard west of I-25.




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         4                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                      May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                          1.0       Introduction
                                    This traffic operations and safety analysis summarizes the effects of a
                                    proposed project to modify the existing I-25/Eden diamond
                                    interchange to a split diamond, with the north half at Eden and the
                                    south half at a new location where Dillon Drive will cross I-25. Figure
                                    1 shows the location of the project in relation to the City of Pueblo.
                                    Figure 2 illustrates the project Study Area. Figure 3 illustrates the
                                    Proposed Action/Recommended Alternative. This is not a new
                                    access point to I-25. It is simply a modification of the existing access.
                                    Naming convention for this report: Currently, Platteville Boulevard
                                    becomes Dillon Drive at the Elizabeth Street/Dillon Drive/Platteville
                                    Boulevard intersection. West of Elizabeth, the road is Platteville.
                                    East of Elizabeth, it is Dillon Drive. In the future, however, Platteville
                                    will be realigned further north, and will align with the existing
                                    crossroad at the I-25/Eden interchange (although no map shows
                                    "Eden" being the street that is the crossroad under I-25). A new
                                    segment of Platteville Boulevard is currently being constructed just
                                    west of the west I-25 frontage road as an extension of the crossroad
                                    at the I-25/Eden interchange. To avoid the confusion caused by
                                    Platteville Boulevard currently existing at two different locations, and
                                    Eden not really being a named street:

                                        ·    The existing full diamond interchange at the I-25/Eden exit,
                                             and the future north half of the split diamond will both be called
                                             "I-25/Eden-Platteville Boulevard"

                                        ·    The proposed south half of the split diamond will be called
                                             "I-25/Dillon Drive."
                                    Description: This proposed modification to the access to I-25 would
                                    require construction of a new bridge over I-25 at Dillon Drive and new
                                    on- and off-ramps to I-25 south of that bridge. These new ramps
                                    would replace the existing ramps at the south half of the I-25/Eden-
                                    Platteville Interchange. This split diamond configuration provides all of
                                    the movements of a typical diamond interchange, but the freeway
                                    connections are split between two adjacent crossroads. In this case,
                                    the connection would be from Dillon Drive (south half of the diamond)
                                    and Eden-Platteville Boulevard (north half of the diamond). The
                                    existing I-25 frontage road along the west side of I-25 will continue to
                                    provide a two-way connection between the south half of this
                                    interchange at Dillon Drive and the north half at Eden-Platteville
                                    Boulevard. In addition, a new one-way northbound ramp on the east
                                    side of I-25 from Dillon Drive to Platteville would be built to provide
                                    additional regional connectivity.
                                    CDOT and FHWA Requirements: To address the requirements of
                                    the Federal Highways Administration (FHWA) Interstate Access
                                    Request (IAR) and the Colorado Department of Transportation
                                    (CDOT) Procedural Directive 1601 requirements for a System Level

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard              5                                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                             May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    Study (SLS), the traffic operations analysis must evaluate if the
                                    Proposed Action to modify the existing full interchange at Platteville
                                    Boulevard to a split diamond interchange at Platteville Boulevard and
                                    Dillon Drive can be accomplished in a manner that "... does not have
                                    a significant adverse impact on the safety and operation of the
                                    Interstate facility based on an analysis of current and future traffic."
                                    Per guidance in the IAR and the SLS, the future traffic scenarios to be
                                    evaluated are:
                                       · the implementation year ­ in this case, 2017 as directed by
                                           FHWA and CDOT ­ and
                                       · the design year, 2035, which is the long range planning
                                           horizon for PACOG.
                                    The basic question that this traffic operations and safety analysis must
                                    address is thus: Can the Purpose and Need for the Proposed Action
                                    bet met in a manner that "... does not have a significant adverse
                                    impact on the safety and operation of the Interstate facility based on
                                    an analysis of current and future traffic?"

                       1.1     Purpose and Need
                                    The purpose of the project is to provide regional connectivity to I-25 to
                                    accommodate existing and planned growth along Dillon Drive and
                                    Platteville Boulevard west of I-25. The existing and planned roadway
                                    system is envisioned by the Pueblo Area Council of Governments
                                    (PACOG) in the 2035 Long Range Transportation Plan.

                                    A connection of Dillon Drive to I-25 is needed to distribute traffic from
                                    this rapidly developing area of the City of Pueblo, Pueblo West, and
                                    Pueblo County to destinations along I-25. Dillon Drive near I-25
                                    serves existing commercial development, including several "big-box"
                                    stores, as well as industrial business and a few small residential
                                    neighborhoods farther to the west. This land use pattern of mixed
                                    development is expected to continue in the future as reflected in the
                                    City of Pueblo Comprehensive Plan. Currently, traffic to and from this
                                    busy area must use either the Eagleridge Interchange at I-25 or the
                                    Eden Interchange approximately two miles north of it. Both
                                    interchanges result in out-of-direction travel as traffic is forced onto
                                    local streets to access area businesses. As the area continues to
                                    grow, a direct connection to I-25 is needed to provide a more efficient
                                    flow of traffic.

                                    Pueblo West is one of the fastest growing unincorporated areas in
                                    Pueblo County. The existing population of Pueblo West is
                                    approximately 33,000 and is projected by PACOG to increase to
                                    approximately 45,000 at build-out. Currently there are only three
                                    regional routes to I-25 for the large area of Pueblo West: Eagleridge
                                    Boulevard, Dillon Drive/Platteville Boulevard and Purcell Boulevard,
                                    as shown in Figure 1 (Eagleridge Boulevard and Purcell Boulevard
                                    have direct interstate access, while regional traffic on Dillon
                                    Drive/Platteville Boulevard is forced onto the local street network to

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             6                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    access I-25. As the area continues to grow and the transportation
                                    network west of I-25 expands to serve that growth, traffic on Dillon
                                    Drive is expected by PACOG to increase from 2,000 vehicles per day
                                    to 7,600 vehicles per day. This increase in traffic will require a more
                                    efficient and logical connection to I-25 than either the existing Eden or
                                    Eagleridge Interchanges.

                                    The need for more efficient and direct access to I-25 has been
                                    recognized by local agencies for many years. Several plans and
                                    previous studies have identified the need to enhance connectivity
                                    between Pueblo West and I-25. In order to provide the currently
                                    needed and future planned connectivity to the west in a manner that
                                    also does not preclude efficient and cost-effective future planned
                                    connectivity which conforms to the Pueblo Area Council of
                                    Governments (PACOG) 2035 Long Range Transportation Plan, a
                                    different configuration of local access and access to/from I-25 is
                                    necessary. The ability to not preclude future planned connectivity to
                                    the east consistent with the PACOG Long Range Transportation Plan
                                    at the existing I-25/Eden-Platteville Boulevard interchange is severely
                                    restricted by the proximity to the Union Pacific railroad and Fountain
                                    Creek just east of the existing interchange. As a result, modified
                                    access to I-25 is necessary.
                                    The following chapter describes the alternatives considered that led to
                                    the selection of a proposed action.

                          2.0       Traffic Operations Methodology
                                    In order to assess the effect of the proposed split diamond
                                    interchange on the future traffic operations within the study area, the
                                    following five separate traffic operations scenarios were analyzed;

                                        ·    Existing Conditions (Year 2008) ­ Current day peak hour
                                             morning and evening traffic volumes and roadway network.

                                        ·    No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) - Projected Year
                                             2017 peak hour morning and evening traffic volumes and
                                             existing (Year 2008) roadway network.

                                        ·    Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) - Projected
                                             Year 2017 peak hour morning and evening traffic volumes and
                                             an updated PACOG approved roadway network with the
                                             proposed split diamond interchange.

                                        ·    No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) - Projected Year 2035 peak
                                             hour morning and evening traffic volumes and PACOG
                                             approved roadway network.

                                        ·    Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) - Projected Year
                                             2035 peak hour morning and evening traffic volumes and
                                             updated PACOG approved roadway network with the
                                             proposed split diamond interchange.


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             7                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    Based on guidance in the FHWA IAR, it is normally required to
                                    evaluate the two adjacent interchanges in both directions of a
                                    proposed new interchange or interchange modification. The nearest
                                    existing full interchange to the north of I-25/Eden-Platteville
                                    Boulevard is Purcell Boulevard and I-25, approximately 4.1 miles to
                                    the north. However, since the north half of the proposed split
                                    diamond (the north ramps of I-25/Eden) interchange is not being
                                    modified as part of the Proposed Action, and that since the distance
                                    between I-25/Eden and I-25/Purcell is so great that any effects of the
                                    proposed improvements would be negligible, by joint concurrence of
                                    FHWA and CDOT the traffic operations analysis is not required to
                                    evaluate the effects on the I-25/Purcell Boulevard interchange.
                                    Multiple alternatives to provide the desired enhanced connectivity and
                                    access to I-25 were developed during the alternatives evaluation
                                    phase of the Environmental Assessment (EA) process.

                       2.1     Environmental Assessment Evaluation Criteria
                                    Key considerations in developing the alternatives were:

                                        ·    Accommodates existing and planned growth along
                                             Dillon/Platteville Blvd;
                                        ·    Provides logical system connectivity;
                                        ·    Improves residential and commercial accessibility to and from
                                             I-25;
                                        ·    Maintains existing access to local businesses;
                                        ·    Meets interstate access requirements;
                                        ·    Is fiscally prudent;
                                        ·    Can be expanded to accommodate future improvements to I-
                                             25 and local streets;
                                        ·    Can environmental impacts be avoided or mitigated; and
                                        ·    Is consistent with local plans (ie, PACOG 2035 Long Range
                                             Transportation Plan).
                                    Alternatives Evaluated:
                                    Four "build" alternatives and the "No-Action" alternative were identified
                                    as the reasonable range of alternatives to be evaluated, and
                                    subjected to the Alternatives Screening process, and evaluated
                                    against the criteria above.
                                    The alternatives were:

                                        ·    Full diamond at Dillon Drive;
                                        ·    Full diamond at Eden-Platteville Boulevard;
                                        ·    Split diamond at Dillon Drive and Eden-Platteville Boulevard
                                             with a two-way frontage road (west side of I-25);
                                        ·    Split diamond at Dillon Drive and Eden-Platteville Boulevard
                                             with one-way pairs; and
                                        ·    No-Action.
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             8                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                        Figure 4 is a graphic showing the basic layout of each of the
                                        alternatives evaluated.
                                        The alternatives screening summary is shown on Figure 5.
                                        Each alternative was assumed to be designed to accommodate
                                        existing or planned transportation system management type
                                        improvements (ramp metering, mass transit, HOV).
                                        Alternatives Screening Results:
                                        Through the screening process, the "Split Diamond With a Two-Way
                                        Frontage Road" alternative was identified as the Preferred Alternative.
                                        It was the only alternative that satisfied all of the evaluation criteria
                                        identified.
                                        The "Split Diamond With a Two-Way Frontage Road" alternative will
                                        thus be evaluated as the "Proposed Action" in this traffic operations
                                        analysis.

                          2.2      Highway Capacity Software Assumptions and Defaults
                                        The traffic operations for the five above scenarios were analyzed with
                                        the Highway Capacity Software (HCS) computer program (HCS 2000
                                        version 4.1f) which utilizes the methodologies contained in the
                                        Highway Capacity Manual (HCM)1. The Level of Service (LOS) was
                                        calculated for mainline I-25, I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas, and
                                        intersections within the study area in order to provide a point of
                                        comparison between the No-Action and Proposed Action. The HCS
                                        software program has many inputs that can affect the calculation of
                                        the LOS, density, and delay. For ease of review, the traffic operations
                                        analysis, the following inputs and rationale for their use are provided
                                        below:
                                                                    MAINLINE
            Category                                            Default Value Actual Value Reason for Variation
            Free-flow speed and Type                               70 MPH        70 MPH
            Lane Width                                               12 ft         12 ft
            Right Shoulder Lateral Clearance                         6 ft.         6ft.
            Interchange Density                                       0.5           1.0    Based upon field measurement
            Number of Lanes                                         Varies           2
            Peak Hour Factor                                          0.9         Varies   Based upon actual peak hour counts
            Terrain Type                                            Level         Level
            Percent Trucks & Buses - Freeway                         0%            7%      Based upon CDOT data
            Trucks & Buses (Passenger Car Equivalents)                1.5           1.5
            Percent Recreational Vehicles                            0%            0%
            Recreational Vehicles (Passenger Car Equivalents)        1.2            1.2
            Driver Population Adjustment Factor                       1.0           1.0




1
    Highway Capacity Manual - Special Report 209. Transportation Research Board. National Research Council. 2000.
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                      9                                      103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                        May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                                                   RAMP MERGE and DIVERGE
         Category                                                         Default Value Actual Value Reason for Variation
         Free-flow speed on freeway                                           55 MPH               65 MPH        Actual Speed Limit on I-25
         Side of Freeway                                                       Right                Right
         Number of lanes                                                         1                    1
         Free-flow speed on ramp                                              35 MPH               45 MPH        Actual Speed limit of Ramp
         Length of first deceleration lane                                      500                 Varies       Based upon actual measured values
         Peak Hour Factor                                                       0.9                 Varies       Based upon actual peak hour counts
         Terrain Type                                                          Level                Level
         Percent Trucks & Buses - Freeway                                       0%                   7%          Based upon CDOT data
                                                                                                                                                         1
         Percent Trucks & Buses - Eden Ramps                                    0%                   1%          Estimated using simliar data for Pueblo
                                                                                                                                                         2
         Percent Trucks & Buses - Eagleridge Ramps                              0%                   2%          Estimated using simliar data for Pueblo
         Trucks & Buses (Passenger Car Equivalents)                             1.5                  1.5
         Percent Recreational Vehicles                                          0%                   0%
         Recreational Vehicles (Passenger Car Equivalents)                      1.2                  1.2
         Driver Population Adjustment Factor                                    1.0                  1.0


         1. The actual value for the Percent Trucks & Buses category utilized for the analysis of the merge/diverge LOS for the Eden Interchange was
         estimated using an average of truck and bus volume data from other similar CDOT facilities within the City of Pueblo.


         2. The actual value for the Percent Trucks & Buses category utilized for the analysis of the merge/diverge LOS for Eagleridge Boulevard was
         estimated using an average of truck and bus volume data from other similar CDOT facilities within the City of Pueblo.


                                                                            INTERSECTION
         Category                                                         Default Value Actual Value Reason for Variation
         Peak Hour Factor - Year 2008                                           0.92               Varies        Based upon actual peak hour counts
         Peak Hour Factor - Year 2035                                           0.92                0.92
         Ideal Saturation Flow Rate                                             1900               1900
                                                                                                                                                           3
         Percent Heavy Vehicle                                                   0%                 2%           Estimated using similar data for Pueblo


         3. The actual value for the Percent Heavy Vehicle category utilized for the analysis of the intersection LOS was estimated using an average of
         truck and bus volume data from other similar CDOT facilities within the City of Pueblo.


                           2.3        Travel Demand Model Projections
                                            Traffic projections that were utilized for the traffic operations analysis
                                            for the No-Action (Year 2035) and Proposed Action (Year 2035)
                                            analyses were developed from the Pueblo Area Council of
                                            Governments (PACOG) approved travel demand model.
                                            Modifications were made to the roadway network within the travel
                                            demand model in order to take into account development that is
                                            anticipated to occur within the study area by Year 2035. While the
                                            roadway network was modified to accommodate future development,
                                            the socioeconomic data was held constant to be consistent with the
                                            fiscally constrained conditions. A summary of the actual changes and
                                            additions made to the travel demand model roadway network for the
                                            traffic operations analysis can be found in Appendix A of this
                                            document.
                                            Modeling assumptions and output from the PACOG travel demand
                                            model utilized for the traffic operations analysis was reviewed and
                                            approved by PACOG. The concurrence letter from the PACOG MPO
                                            Administrator is included in Appendix A of this document.


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                                   10                                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                                                May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                       2.4     Travel Demand Model Output Review
                                    A review of the traffic volume output from the PACOG model was
                                    reviewed prior to the traffic operations analysis to determine if there
                                    were any irregularities or anomalies. After review, there was concern
                                    that Year 2035 southbound I-25 volumes in the project area were
                                    noticeably higher than the Year 2035 northbound I-25 volumes. A
                                    closer review of the northbound and southbound traffic volumes along
                                    I-25 within the PACOG modeling area revealed that from the El Paso
                                    County line to well past our project area that the southbound peak
                                    hour traffic volumes were much higher than the northbound peak hour
                                    traffic volumes. In addition, the review indicated that a similar trend
                                    exists for the traffic volumes south of the downtown Pueblo area. The
                                    south end of I-25 experienced a similar directional split as the north
                                    side with the primary movements being inbound in the AM and
                                    outbound in the PM.
                                    This review reinforces the evidence that travel patterns in Pueblo by
                                    Year 2035 will be experiencing a typical regional commuter flow of
                                    traffic entering downtown Pueblo in the AM and exiting downtown
                                    Pueblo in the PM. Furthermore, it is clear that the Year 2035 model
                                    assumes that the downtown Pueblo area has higher employment than
                                    in Year 2008, and that the majority of the residential growth occurs
                                    outside of the downtown area resulting in traffic coming into the
                                    downtown area in the morning and leaving in the evening. With
                                    regard to this project, the results show higher peak hour volumes
                                    heading southbound on I-25 from north Pueblo in the morning toward
                                    downtown and the central areas of Pueblo, and higher peak hour
                                    volumes returning northbound from downtown on I-25 in the evening.

                       2.5     Traffic Operations Analysis
                                    The traffic operations for all five scenarios (Existing Conditions, No-
                                    Action for Implementation Year 2017 and Design Year 2035, and
                                    Proposed Action for Implementation Year 2017 and Design Year
                                    2035) were analyzed utilizing the Highway Capacity Software
                                    package. Level of Service (LOS) was utilized for comparison between
                                    the five scenarios.
                                    LOS is a measure used to describe operational conditions on a
                                    freeway, ramp merge or diverge areas and at an intersection. LOS
                                    categories ranging from A to F are assigned based on the predicted
                                    density or delay. LOS A indicates very good operations, and LOS F
                                    indicates poor, congested operations. For freeway mainline and ramp
                                    merge and diverge operations analysis, density is the measure of
                                    effectiveness that defines the letter LOS which indicates the quality of
                                    operations. For intersection operations analysis, delay is the measure
                                    of effectiveness that defines the letter LOS that indicates the quality of
                                    intersection operations.




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             11                                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                            May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    Freeway LOS is measured in terms of the relative level of density for
                                    the freeway segment. Density is a measure of the amount of
                                    congestion that is anticipated to occur along a freeway segment and
                                    in our case is represented as the number of passenger cars per mile
                                    per lane (pc/mi/ln). The LOS criteria utilized for the freeway sections
                                    are shown in the table below.
                                                         LOS Criteria for Multilane Highways
                                                                                                    LOS
                              Free-Flow Speed                    Criteria
                                                                                       A      B      C      D      E
                                                Maximum Density (pc/mi/ln)             11     18     26     35     40
                             60 mi/h or greater
                                                Average Speed (mi/h)                  60.0   60.0   59.4   56.7   55.0
                                                Maximum Density (pc/mi/ln)             11     18     26     35     41
                                 55 mi/h
                                                Average Speed (mi/h)                  55.0   55.0   54.9   52.9   51.2
                                                Maximum Density (pc/mi/ln)             11     18     26     35     43
                                 50 mi/h
                                                Average Speed (mi/h)                  50.0   50.0   50.0   48.9   47.5
                                                Maximum Density (pc/mi/ln)             11     18     26     35     45
                                 45 mi/h
                                                Average Speed (mi/h)                  45.0   45.0   45.0   44.4   42.2

                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    Ramp merge/diverge area LOS is also measured in terms of the
                                    relative level of density for the merge/diverge area. Density is a
                                    measure of the amount of congestion that is anticipated to occur
                                    within the ramp merge/diverge areas and is represented as the
                                    number of passenger cars per mile per lane (pc/mi/ln). The LOS
                                    criteria utilized for the merge/diverge sections are shown in the table
                                    below.
                                              LOS Criteria for Ramp Merge and Diverge Areas
                                                    LOS              Density (pc/mi/ln)
                                                       A              10
                                                       B             > 10-20
                                                       C             > 20-28
                                                       D             > 28-35
                                                       E             > 35
                                                       F             Demand exceed capacity

                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    Intersection LOS is measured in terms of the average amount of
                                    stopped delay that is experienced waiting at an intersection. In this
                                    instance the delay is represented as seconds per vehicle (sec/veh).
                                    The LOS criteria utilized for the both signalized and unsignalized
                                    intersections are shown in the table below.
                                                           LOS Criteria for Intersections
                                                   Signalized Control Delay Unsignalized Control Delay
                                       LOS
                                                           (sec/veh)                    (sec/veh)
                                         A                    10                           10
                                         B                  > 10-20                      > 10-15
                                         C                  > 20-35                      > 15-25
                                         D                  > 35-55                      > 25-35
                                         E                  > 55-80                      > 35-50
                                         F                   > 80                         > 50

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                   12                                      103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                     May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    The LOS was calculated for all five scenarios and presented in detail
                                    below.
                                    Weave Analysis
                                    Weave analysis is often required when the merge/diverge points
                                    between successive on- and off- ramps are in close proximity.
                                    However, weave sections were not formally analyzed for LOS for any
                                    of the scenarios that follow. This is because HCS methodology does
                                    not require evaluation of weave operations when the distance
                                    between the merge/diverge points of successive ramps are greater
                                    than 2500 feet, which is assumed to be outside the radius of
                                    influence. The distance between the existing I-25/Eagleridge
                                    Boulevard and the I-25/Eden-Platteville Boulevard interchanges (for
                                    the Existing Conditions analysis) is approximately 1.6 miles. The
                                    distance between the existing I-25/Eagleridge Boulevard and the
                                    Proposed Action I-25/Dillon Drive south half-diamond is approximately
                                    1.2 miles. Thus, the distances between the merge/diverge points of
                                    either and I-25/Eagleridge is considerably greater than 2500 feet.
                                    Level of Service Threshold Defined
                                    The LOS threshold for this type of traffic operations analysis is LOS D
                                    for an urban area and LOS C for a rural area. The project area is by
                                    definition "urbanized" since it is within a Metropolitan Planning
                                    Organization (PACOG) area of greater than 50,000 residents. Thus,
                                    LOS D was used as the threshold to distinguish between acceptable
                                    (LOS A, B, C or D) or unacceptable (LOS E or F) levels of service. For
                                    freeway segments, merge/diverge points, or study area intersections.



                         2.5.1      Existing Conditions (Year 2008) Operations Analysis
                                    The Existing (Year 2008) traffic operations analysis utilized traffic
                                    volumes collected in October 2008 along I-25 and the surrounding
                                    roadways and intersections within the study area. The traffic count
                                    data is provided in Appendix B of this document. Figures 6, 7 and 8
                                    present the Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Average Daily Traffic
                                    Volumes, Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Laneage, Existing (Year
                                    2008) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial
                                    Turning Movements, respectively.
                                    The existing conditions (Year 2008) traffic operations analysis for the
                                    Platteville/Dillon and I-25 Roadway Improvements project entailed the
                                    analysis of freeway, ramp and intersection level of service (LOS) for I-
                                    25, Platteville Boulevard, Eagleridge Boulevard and the surrounding
                                    roadway network.
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    The freeway LOS for the six identified locations along I-25 that were
                                    analyzed operate at LOS B or better during the morning and evening


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             13                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    peak periods. The results of the morning and evening peak hour
                                    freeway mainline calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    The ramp LOS for the eight identified ramp locations along I-25 that
                                    were analyzed is LOS B or better during the morning and evening
                                    peak periods. The results of the morning and evening peak hour
                                    ramp merge/diverge calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    The intersection LOS for all eight of the intersections analyzed is
                                    LOS D or better during the morning peak periods. The results of the
                                    morning and evening peak hour intersection calculations are
                                    summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Summary of Results
                                    Figure 9 presents the Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Mainline I-25,
                                    Ramp and Intersection Level of Service. The LOS worksheets for the
                                    freeway, merge/diverge areas and intersections are included in
                                    Appendix C of this document.
                                    Findings and Conclusion
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the existing Year 2008
                                    condition show that all freeway segments, ramp merge/diverge areas
                                    and intersections operate well at LOS B or better with the exception of
                                    the unsignalized intersection of Eagleridge Boulevard / Dillon Drive
                                    during the evening peak period which operates at LOS D. Based on
                                    the results, the current roadway network within the study area has
                                    sufficient capacity to accommodate the existing volume of traffic
                                    during the morning and evening peak periods.

                         2.5.2      No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Operations
                                    Analysis
                                    The No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) traffic operations
                                    analysis utilized projected traffic volumes derived from the PACOG
                                    No-Action travel demand model. Figures 10, 11 and 12 present the
                                    No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) Study Area Average Daily
                                    Traffic Volumes, No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) Study Area
                                    Laneage, No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) Study Area Peak
                                    Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements,
                                    respectively.
                                    Compared to the Existing Conditions (2008) roadway network, the No-
                                    Action - Implementation Year (2017) roadway network assumes the
                                    frontage road on the west side of I-25, north of Platteville/Eden has
                                    been closed/eliminated.
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    The freeway LOS for the six identified locations along I-25 that were
                                    analyzed are anticipated to operate at LOS C or better during the
                                    morning and evening peak periods. The results of the morning and

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             14                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                          May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    evening peak hour freeway mainline calculations are summarized in
                                    Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the eight identified I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas
                                    analyzed along I-25 is anticipated to be LOS C or better during both
                                    the morning and evening peak period. The results of the morning and
                                    evening peak hour ramp merge/diverge calculations are summarized
                                    in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    The intersection LOS for all eight of the intersections analyzed is
                                    anticipated to be LOS B or better during the morning and evening
                                    peak periods. The results of the morning and evening peak hour
                                    intersection calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Summary of Results
                                    Figure 13 presents the No-Action - Implementation Year (2017) Study
                                    Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection LOS. The LOS
                                    worksheets for the freeway, merge/diverge areas and intersections
                                    are included in Appendix C of this document.
                                    Findings and Conclusion
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the No-Action -
                                    Implementation Year (2017) condition show that all freeway
                                    segments, ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections are expected
                                    to operate well at LOS C or better. Based on the results, the current
                                    roadway network within the study area has sufficient capacity to
                                    accommodate the No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) volume of
                                    traffic during the morning and evening peak periods.

                         2.5.3      Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Operations
                                    Analysis
                                    The Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) traffic operations
                                    analysis utilized traffic volumes derived from the PACOG Proposed
                                    Action travel demand model with modifications that include the
                                    proposed action. Figures 14, 15, and 16 present the Proposed Action
                                    ­ Implementation Year (2017), Proposed Action ­ Implementation
                                    Year (2017) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes, Proposed
                                    Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Study Area Laneage, Proposed
                                    Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline
                                    I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements, respectively.
                                    Compared to the Existing Conditions (2008) roadway network, the
                                    Proposed Action (2017) roadway network assumes:

                                          · the frontage road on the west side of I-25, north of
                                             Platteville/Eden has been closed/eliminated.

                                          · the south ramps at the I-25/Platteville/Eden interchange have
                                             been eliminated and removed, and


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard              15                                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                             May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                          · the new south half diamond at I-25/Dillon has been
                                             constructed and is in service.
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the six identified locations analyzed along I-25, is
                                    anticipated to be LOS C or better during the morning and evening
                                    peak periods. The results of the morning and evening peak hour
                                    freeway mainline calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Comparison to No-Action: The Proposed Action ­ Implementation
                                    Year (2017) freeway segments all operate as well, and in one case,
                                    better, than the No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario.

                                        ·    The northbound I-25 freeway segment, north of I-25/Platteville
                                             Boulevard/Eden operates at LOS A in the morning peak in the
                                             Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario, while
                                             the same segment operates at LOS B in the morning peak in
                                             the No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario.
                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the eight identified I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas
                                    analyzed along I-25 is anticipated to be LOS C or better during the
                                    morning and evening peak periods. The results of the morning and
                                    evening peak hour ramp merge/diverge calculations are summarized
                                    in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Comparison to No-Action: The ramp merge/diverge LOS for each of
                                    the eight I-25 ramp merge/diverge locations in the Proposed Action ­
                                    Implementation Year (2017) scenario is the same as the No-Action ­
                                    Implementation Year (2017) scenario, except for one ramp merge
                                    point, which operates better in the Proposed Action ­ Implementation
                                    Year (2017) scenario. The new southbound on-ramp at I-25/Dillon
                                    Drive in the Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario
                                    operates at LOS A in the evening peak, compared to LOS B in the
                                    No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario.
                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    The intersection LOS for all ten of the intersections analyzed is
                                    anticipated to be LOS B or better during the morning and evening
                                    peak periods.
                                    Comparison to No-Action: The Proposed Action ­ Implementation
                                    Year (2017) intersection LOS for each of the ten intersections in the
                                    Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario are the same
                                    as the No Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario, except for
                                    one intersection, which operates better in the Proposed Action ­
                                    Implementation Year (2017) scenario. The east ramp terminal
                                    intersection at the I-25/Eagleridge interchange operates at LOS A
                                    during the evening peak in the Proposed Action ­ Implementation
                                    Year (2017) scenario, compared to LOS B during the evening peak in
                                    the No-Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario.
                                    Summary of Results
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             16                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    The results of the morning and evening peak hour intersection
                                    calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Figure 17 presents
                                    the Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) Study Area
                                    Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection LOS. The LOS worksheets for
                                    the freeway, merge/diverge areas and intersections are included in
                                    Appendix C of this document.
                                    Findings and Conclusion
                                    Based on the results, the 2017 roadway network within the study area
                                    has sufficient capacity to accommodate the Proposed Action ­
                                    Implementation Year (2017) volume of traffic during the morning and
                                    evening peak periods at a LOS C or better. There is an overall
                                    improvement in freeway and intersection operations with the
                                    Proposed Action Implementation Year (2017) alternative compared to
                                    the No-Action Implementation Year (2017) alternative.

                         2.5.4      No-Action - Design Year (2035) Operations Analysis
                                    The No-Action - Design Year (2035) traffic operations analysis utilized
                                    projected traffic volumes from the PACOG No-Action (Year 2035)
                                    travel demand model. Figures 18, 19, and 20 present the No-Action
                                    Design Year (2035) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes, No-
                                    Action - Design Year (2035) Study Area Laneage, No- Action - Design
                                    Year (2035) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial
                                    Turning Movements, respectively.
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the six identified locations analyzed along I-25 ranged
                                    from LOS B to LOS F during the morning and evening peak periods.
                                    One freeway location (southbound I-25 between Eden/Platteville and
                                    Eagleridge Boulevard) is anticipated to operate at LOS E, and another
                                    (southbound I-25 south of Eagleridge Boulevard) is anticipated to
                                    operate at LOS F in morning peak hour. The other four locations are
                                    anticipated to operate at LOS D or better. The results of the morning
                                    and evening peak hour freeway mainline calculations are summarized
                                    in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the eight I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas analyzed along
                                    I-25 ranged from LOS B to LOS F during the morning and evening
                                    peak period. The southbound I-25 at Eagleridge off- and on- ramps
                                    merge/diverge points both operate at LOS F in the morning peak
                                    hour. The other six ramp merge/diverge locations operated at LOS D
                                    or better. The results of the morning and evening peak hour ramp
                                    merge/diverge calculations are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    The intersection LOS for all eight of the intersections analyzed is
                                    anticipated to be LOS C or better during the morning and evening
                                    peak periods with the exception of the intersection of Eagleridge
                                    Boulevard / Elizabeth Street which is anticipated to operate at LOS E
                                    during the morning peak period. The results of the morning and

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard            17                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                         May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    evening peak hour intersection calculations are summarized in Tables
                                    1 and 2.
                                    Summary of Results
                                    Figure 21 presents the No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) Study Area
                                    Mainline I-25, ramp and Intersection LOS. The LOS worksheets for
                                    the freeway, merge/diverge areas and intersections are included in
                                    Appendix C of this document.
                                    Findings and Conclusion
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the No-Action ­ Design
                                    Year (2035) condition indicates that the volume of traffic on
                                    southbound I-25 within the study area begins to exceed the capacity
                                    of the roadway network at five locations (southbound I-25 between
                                    Platteville Boulevard and Eagleridge Boulevard; southbound I-25
                                    south of Eagleridge Boulevard; the southbound off- and on- ramp
                                    diverge/merge points at Eagleridge Boulevard; and the
                                    Eagleridge/Elizabeth intersection) during the morning peak period.
                                    Except as pointed out above, the remainder of the freeway segments,
                                    ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections in the study area are
                                    anticipated to operate well at LOS D or better during both the morning
                                    and evening peak periods.
                                    The results indicate that more capacity is required on southbound I-25
                                    and at the intersection of Eagleridge Boulevard / Elizabeth Street to
                                    accommodate the volume of traffic anticipated in Year 2035; however
                                    the remainder of the roadway network within the study area is
                                    anticipated to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the volume of
                                    traffic anticipated in Year 2035.

                         2.5.5      Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) Operations Analysis
                                    The Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) traffic operations analysis
                                    utilized traffic volumes from the PACOG Proposed Action (Year 2035)
                                    travel demand model with modifications that include the proposed
                                    action. Figures 22, 23, and 24 present the Proposed Action - Design
                                    Year (2035) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes, Proposed
                                    Action - Design Year (2035) Study Area Laneage, Proposed Action -
                                    Design Year (2035) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and
                                    Arterial Turning Movements, respectively.
                                    Freeway Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the six identified locations analyzed along I-25 is
                                    anticipated to range from LOS B to LOS F during the morning and
                                    evening peak periods. One freeway location (I-25 between
                                    Eden/Platteville and Eagleridge) is anticipated to operate at LOS E,
                                    and another (I-25 south of Eagleridge) is anticipated to operate at
                                    LOS F in morning peak hour. The other four freeway locations are
                                    anticipated to operate at LOS D or better. The results of the morning
                                    and evening peak hour freeway mainline calculations are summarized
                                    in Tables 1 and 2.

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             18                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                          May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    Comparison to No-Action: The Proposed Action - Design Year (2035)
                                    freeway segments all operate as well as the freeway segments in No-
                                    Action - Design Year (2035) scenario. No freeway segments operate
                                    worse, and none operate better as a result of the Proposed Action.
                                    Ramp Merge/Diverge Level of Service
                                    The LOS for the eight I-25 ramp merge/diverge areas analyzed along
                                    I-25 ranged from LOS B to LOS F during the morning and evening
                                    peak period. The southbound I-25 at Eagleridge off- and on- ramps
                                    diverge/merge points both are anticipated to operate at LOS F in the
                                    morning peak hour. The other six ramp merge/diverge locations are
                                    anticipated to operate at LOS D or better in both the morning and
                                    evening peak hours. The results of the morning and evening peak
                                    hour ramp merge/diverge calculations are summarized in Tables 1
                                    and 2.
                                     Comparison to No-Action: The ramp merge/diverge LOS for each of
                                    the eight I-25 ramp merge/diverge locations in the Proposed Action -
                                    Design Year (2035)scenario is the same as the No-Action - Design
                                    Year (2035) scenario, except for one ramp merge point, which
                                    operates better in the Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) scenario.
                                    The new northbound on-ramp at I-25/Dillon Drive in the Proposed
                                    Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario operates at LOS B in the
                                    morning peak, compared to LOS C in the No-Action ­ Design Year
                                    (2035) scenario.
                                    Intersection Level of Service
                                    The intersection LOS for all ten of the intersections analyzed is
                                    anticipated to be LOS D or better during the morning peak period.
                                    During the evening peak period the intersection LOS at all ten of the
                                    intersections analyzed is anticipated to be LOS C or better. The
                                    results of the morning and evening peak hour intersection calculations
                                    are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
                                    Comparison to No-Action: The Proposed Action ­ Design Year
                                    (2035) intersections all operate as well, and in five cases, better than
                                    the No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) intersections. The intersections
                                    with improved LOS are:

                                        ·    The Eagleridge/Elizabeth intersection LOS improves from LOS
                                             E in the morning peak hour in the No-Action - Design Year
                                             (2035) scenario to LOS D in the Proposed Action ­ Design
                                             Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    The southbound I-25 ramps / Eagleridge Boulevard
                                             intersection LOS improves from LOS B in the evening peak
                                             hour in the No-Action - Design Year (2035) scenario to LOS A
                                             in the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    The Eagleridge Boulevard/Dillon Drive intersection LOS
                                             improves from LOS C in the morning peak hour in the No-


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             19                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                          May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                             Action - Design Year (2035) scenario to LOS B in the
                                             Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    The northbound I-25/ Platteville/Eden ramp terminal
                                             intersection improves from LOS B in both the morning and
                                             evening peak hours in the No-Action - Design Year (2035)
                                             scenario to LOS A in the Proposed Action ­ Design Year
                                             (2035) scenario.
                                    Summary of Results
                                    Figure 25 presents the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) Study
                                    Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service. The LOS
                                    worksheets for the freeway segments, merge/diverge areas and
                                    intersections are included in Appendix C of this document.
                                    Findings and Conclusion
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the Proposed Action
                                    Design Year (2035) condition indicates that the volume of traffic on
                                    southbound I-25 within the study area begins to exceed the capacity
                                    of the roadway network at three locations (southbound I-25 between
                                    Dillon Drive and Eagleridge Boulevard; southbound I-25 south of
                                    Eagleridge Boulevard; and the southbound off- and on- ramp
                                    diverge/merge points at Eagleridge Boulevard) during the morning
                                    peak period.
                                    Except as pointed out above, the remainder of the freeway segments,
                                    ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections in the study area are
                                    anticipated to operate well at LOS D or better during both the morning
                                    and evening peak periods.
                                    The results indicate that more capacity is required on southbound I-25
                                    to accommodate the volume of traffic anticipated in Year 2035;
                                    however the remainder of the roadway network within the study area
                                    is anticipated to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the volume
                                    of traffic anticipated in Year 2035.
                                    Compared to the No-Action Design Year (2035) scenario, the
                                    Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) results show that:

                                        ·    In no instance is the LOS of any freeway segment, ramp
                                             merge/diverge point, or intersection worse in the Proposed
                                             Action (2035) scenario compared to the No-Action (2035)
                                             scenario.

                                        ·    In one instance the ramp merge/diverge LOS is improved in
                                             the Proposed Action - Design Year (2035) scenario compared
                                             to the No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    In five instances, the intersection LOS is improved in the
                                             Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario compared to
                                             the No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario.



I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             20                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                          May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                       2.6       Sensitivity Analysis
                                    Because the traffic operations analysis and results are sensitive to the
                                    HCS and PACOG model inputs and assumptions, it was felt prudent
                                    to answer the question:
                                    "To what extent might variations in the HCS model inputs and
                                    assumptions, or how much must the PACOG model results vary,
                                    before the traffic operations results that the fundamental conclusions
                                    rest upon are compromised?"
                                    To that end, a sensitivity analysis of the results of the Proposed Action
                                    (Year 2035) traffic operations analysis was performed to determine
                                    how sensitive the LOS values might be to changes in inputs or
                                    assumptions. Two separate sensitivity analyses were performed to
                                    determine the sensitivity of the traffic operations results and the
                                    validity of the conclusions. The two tests were varying the HCS
                                    inputs and varying the input volumes within the HCS software. Given
                                    the results of the traffic operations analysis, the sensitivity analyses
                                    were only performed on those locations where the LOS was D or
                                    worse.

                         2.6.1      HCS Input Sensitivity Analysis
                                    As discussed previously in Section 2.4, a few inputs in the HCS were
                                    varied from their default values to utilize actual measured data.
                                    These inputs were the Free Slow Speed (FFS) and the percent of
                                    trucks or buses for the ramp merge/diverge area analysis
                                    For the ramp merge/diverge area analysis there were two FFS inputs,
                                    freeway FFS, and ramp FFS. The default freeway and ramp FFS
                                    values are 55 MPH and 35 MPH, respectively; however the actual
                                    values utilized for the analysis were 65 MPH and 45 MPH,
                                    respectively. For the sensitivity analysis the FFS was changed back
                                    to the default values for each category and evaluated independently,
                                    and then both values were changed to defaults and evaluated. In all
                                    three scenarios, utilizing the default values for the FFS did not change
                                    the LOS or densities for any of the evaluated ramp merge/diverge
                                    locations.
                                    For the mainline and ramp merge/diverge area LOS analyses of all
                                    three evaluated scenarios the percent of trucks and buses was
                                    increased from 0%, the default value, to a maximum of 2%, an
                                    estimated value. For the sensitivity analysis the percent of trucks and
                                    buses was both increased to 7%, to reflect the percent truck and
                                    buses on the freeway, as well as reduced to 0%, the default value.
                                    Based upon the results of the analysis, when the percent of trucks
                                    and buses percentage was decreased to 0%, one mainline location,
                                    southbound I-25 south of Eagleridge Boulevard, experienced a LOS
                                    change (LOS F to LOS E).
                                    Based upon the results of the sensitivity analysis, it is concluded that
                                    while actual field data was utilized in several location rather than
                                    default HCS inputs, in this instance there was not enough variability

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             21                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                            between the two data sets to change the MOE's sufficiently to change
                                            the results or conclusions of the analysis.

                                 2.6.2      Variability of PACOG Travel Demand Model Volumes
                                            The other sensitivity analysis that was performed was to determine
                                            the sensitivity of the volumes utilized for the traffic operations analysis
                                            by increasing or decreasing the volumes from the PACOG travel
                                            demand model sufficient to change the current LOS. For this
                                            sensitivity analysis, the freeway mainline volume thresholds for LOS
                                            C, D, and E were determined and then compared against the
                                            Proposed Action mainline volumes to determine the percent volume
                                            increase required to meet those LOS thresholds. These volume
                                            thresholds are:
                                                 ·   LOS C -  2,686
                                                 ·   LOS D -  3,389
                                                 ·   LOS E -  3,827
                                            Based upon these thresholds, the previously identified locations along
                                            I-25 were evaluated to determine the percent increase required to
                                            meet the above LOS thresholds. In order for the LOS to change to
                                            LOS C, the PACOG freeway volumes would need to vary by -17% to
                                            +57%. In order for the LOS to change to LOS D, the PACOG freeway
                                            volumes would need to increase by 7% to 66%. In order for the LOS
                                            to change to LOS E, the PACOG freeway volumes would need to
                                            increase by 21% to 70%. The actual percent change for each location
                                            is shown below.
                                         C urre n t Vol ume             LO S C                     LO S D                      LO S E
        Mai n l i ne Se gme nt
                                           AM        PM       AM % di ff.   PM % di ff.   AM % di ff.   PM % di ff.   AM % di ff.   PM % di ff.
 SB I-25 Nort h of Plat t eville Blvd     3040       1360        -13%            49%         10%            60%          21%            64%
SB I-25 Dillon Dr t o Eagleridge Blvd     3050       1360        -14%            49%         10%            60%          20%            64%
  SB I-25 Sout h of Eagleridge Blvd       3150       1500        -17%            44%          7%            56%          18%            61%


 NB I-25 Sout h of Eagleridge Blvd        1390       2070        48%             23%         59%            39%          64%            46%
NB I-25 Eagleridge Blvd t o Dillon Dr     1390       2140        48%             20%         59%            37%          64%            44%
 NB I-25 Nort h of Plat t eville Blvd     1160       1980        57%             26%         66%            42%          70%            48%

                                            Based upon this sensitivity analysis, there is capacity within the
                                            projected I-25 mainline volumes to increase significantly, by 21% to
                                            70%, without the LOS degrading below the accepted LOS threshold,
                                            LOS D. Furthermore these results indicate that the actual analysis
                                            and conclusions drawn from the No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035)
                                            and Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) analyses are valid.

                                  3.0       Crash and Safety Analysis
                                            A safety analysis was performed for the freeway mainline, ramp
                                            merge diverge points and interchange intersections to determine if
                                            there were any unusual existing safety problems within the study
                                            area. Crash data was obtained from CDOT for I-25 from mile post
                                            104.4 to mile post 101.84, or roughly from the Eden Interchange to
                                            the Eagleridge Boulevard interchange, CDOT characterizes this
                                            segment as an urban highway. Crash data was analyzed from 2001
                                            through 2005, the most recent crash data available from CDOT.
    I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                        22                                           103325-PUEBL
    Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                               May 24, 2010
    Pueblo, Colorado
                                    Over the five year period the crash records indicated the following:

                                                                         Number of         Length       Crash Rate
                                          Year             ADT
                                                                         Accidents         (Miles)       (MVM)*
                                          2001            30,648             38              2.6           1.33
                                          2002            30,209             28              2.6           0.99
                                          2003            29,305             29              2.6           1.06
                                          2004            29,870             36              2.6           1.29
                                          2005            29,954             31              2.6           1.11
                                                           Total             162          Average          1.16

                                    * Crash Rate is shown per Million Vehicle Miles of Travel (MVM)
                                    Over the five year period this 2.6 mile stretch of I-25 exhibited an
                                    average of 32 crashes per year, or less than 3 crashes per month.
                                    Factoring in ADT and length, this translates into an average crash rate
                                    of 1.16 MVM. Based on discussions with CDOT staff traffic, the
                                    benchmark crash rate for urban highways is 2.00 MVM. With a crash
                                    rate of 1.16, this segment of highway meets the CDOT performance
                                    measure for safety. Therefore, it is concluded that there is not a safety
                                    issue within the study area.
                                    The crash records were classified by crash type and severity. A
                                    summary of the crash history by crash type and severity is shown
                                    below.
                                                   Crash Severity               Crash Type
                                                    PDO      130          Rear-End                 46
                                                     INJ      31          Sideswipe                20
                                                    FAT        1          Overturning              14
                                                    Total    162          Broadside                10
                                                                          Approach Turn            3
                                                                          Other                    69
                                                                                Total             162

                                    As can be seen above, the vast majority of the crashes that occurred
                                    within the study area were PDO, or property damage only, with the
                                    highest reported crash type being rear end crashes.


                                    Results of the Safety Analysis:
                                    The safety analysis does not indicate any unusual existing safety
                                    problems that should be addressed with the Proposed Action.
                                    The Proposed Action will be designed in accordance with current
                                    interstate design criteria. Thus, there is no reason to believe that
                                    construction of the Proposed Action will result in worsened safety
                                    conditions.
                                    The biggest potential for safety concerns within the study area ­
                                    regardless of whether the proposed improvements are constructed or
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                    23                                            103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                                            May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    not ­ is if southbound I-25 reaches saturation during the morning peak
                                    period in the future. If this happens, backups on the interstate or
                                    congestion at the southbound Eagleridge on- and off-ramp
                                    merge/diverge points might occur, and crash problems might result.

                          4.0       The Case for Connectivity
                                    The Purpose and Need describes the need to provide regional
                                    connectivity to I-25 to accommodate existing and planned growth
                                    along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard west of I-25. This will be
                                    evaluated by:

                                    ·   Comparing the number of travel choices and directness of
                                        connection to I-25 of the No Action to the Proposed Action, and

                                    ·   Comparing the travel volume changes in the Proposed Action to
                                        the changes in travel volumes that would be expected if the
                                        Proposed Action were to result in improved connectivity.
                                    The Figures (A ­ H) and Table A referenced in this section 4.0
                                    are found in Appendix D.

                       4.1     Travel Choices and Directness of Travel
                                    As one can see when looking at the travel choices available for
                                    travelers from Pueblo West and areas to the northwest (red arrows),
                                    and to the west (green arrows) wanting access to/from I-25, as shown
                                    on Figures E - H for the Proposed Action compared to Figures A ­ D
                                    for the No Action, it is clear that:
                                    · The Proposed Action provides more travel choices (Platteville to
                                         Frontage Road to I-25 ramps at Dillon [orange route] or Elizabeth
                                         to Dillon to I-25 ramps at Dillon [blue route]) for these travelers
                                         from Pueblo West and areas to the north and west (red arrows) for
                                         those travelers who choose not to use the Elizabeth to Eagleridge
                                         to I-25 ramps at Eagleridge (fuscia) route compared to the No
                                         Action. With the No Action 2035 and 2017 scenarios, those
                                         travelers have just one choice (Dillon to Frontage Road to I-25
                                         ramps at Eden).
                                    · The PA provides more direct connections to I-25. The out-of-
                                         direction travel in the NA scenarios to the north (From Dillon along
                                         the Frontage Road to the I-25 ramps at Eden in the AM ­ or south
                                         in the PM ­ shown on Figures A ­ D required for both the travelers
                                         from Pueblo West and areas to the northwest (red arrows) AND
                                         the travelers from the west (green arrows) is eliminated with the
                                         PA 2017 and 2035 scenarios.

                                    Results of Travel Choices/Directness Analysis:
                                    Comparing the number of route choices that are available to those
                                    travelers in Pueblo West and areas west (red arrows) and areas to the
                                    west (green arrows) with the Proposed Action scenarios to those
                                    available in the No Action scenarios, and comparing the directness of
                                    the Proposed Action routes compared to the No Action routes, it is

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             24                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    easily concluded that connectivity is increased with the Proposed
                                    Action scenarios based on the route choices available and the
                                    directness of access to I-25.

                       4.2     Travel Volume Changes Experienced vs. Those Expected

                                    If connectivity is indeed increased with the Proposed Action compared
                                    to the No Action, several changes in average daily traffic volumes
                                    would be expected:
                                         · The southbound on-ramp traffic at Dillon I-25 would increase
                                            with the Proposed Action, as more traffic would use this if it
                                            were a more direct connection;
                                         · The northbound off-ramp traffic at Dillon/I-25 would increase
                                            with the Proposed Action, as more traffic would use this if it
                                            were a more direct connection;
                                         · The traffic on the Frontage Road between Platteville/Eden and
                                            Dillon would decrease, since all traffic choosing not to use the
                                            Elizabeth-Eagleridge (fuscia) route is now not forced to use
                                            the Frontage Road to access I-25;
                                         · The total combined traffic volumes of Dillon (between
                                            Elizabeth and the Frontage Road) and Platteville (between
                                            Elizabeth and the Frontage Road) would increase;
                                         · The total traffic volumes on Elizabeth would decrease, as
                                            traffic that used to use Elizabeth to Eagleridge (fuscia) route is
                                            drawn to the more direct I-25 south ramps at Dillon via the
                                            orange or blue routes;
                                         · The traffic on Eagleridge between Elizabeth and I-25 would
                                            decrease, as traffic from the northwest and west that used to
                                            use the Elizabeth to Eagleridge (fuscia) route is drawn to the
                                            more direct I-25 south ramps at Dillon via the orange or blue
                                            routes;
                                         · The southbound on-ramp traffic at Eagleridge/I-25 would
                                            decrease, as traffic from the northwest and west that used to
                                            use Elizabeth to Eagleridge (fuscia) route is drawn to the more
                                            direct I-25 south ramps at Dillon via the orange or blue routes;
                                         · The northbound on-ramp traffic at Eagleridge/I-25 would
                                            decrease, as traffic from the northwest and west that used to
                                            use the Elizabeth to Eagleridge (fuscia) route is drawn to the
                                            more direct I-25 south ramps at Dillon via the orange or blue
                                            routes.

                                    Of the above, the clearest indicators as to whether the Proposed
                                    Action scenarios increase connectivity or not compared to the No
                                    Action scenarios are the first two: Did the south ramp volumes at I-
                                    25/Dillon increase with the Proposed Action scenarios compared to
                                    the ramp volumes at I-25/Eden in the No Action scenarios? If they do,
                                    that means that travelers are naturally drawn to this configuration of
                                    the interchange (split diamond with Dillon/I-25 being the south half)
                                    moreso than to the current full diamond at Eden/I-25 because of the


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             25                                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                            May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    increased connectivity, directness of travel, and travel options
                                    available with the Proposed Action roadway network.

                                    The other indicators above also provide insight. But, there are many
                                    variables having to do with the travel demand model, the assumptions
                                    that went into it, and how it operates that make those indicators less
                                    reliable, but still useful to quantify and compare.

                                    The 2017 No Action and Proposed Action volumes used for
                                    comparison purposes above are found on Figures A thru D. Figures
                                    E and F show the average daily traffic volumes which were used to
                                    compare the 2035 No Action and Proposed Action volumes.

                                    The result of this analysis is shown on Table A. Most of the
                                    indicators, including the primary ramp volume change indicators, are
                                    consistent with what would be expected if connectivity were increased
                                    with the Proposed Action compared to the No Action. The few
                                    indicators that did not change as expected were likely a result of
                                    rounding done by the model, or because of the lack of inaccuracy
                                    inherent in a regional model. In those cases, the differences in traffic
                                    volumes shown compared to those expected were very small (100
                                    vpd or less) at those locations.

                                    Results of Travel Volume Changes vs. Those Expected Analysis:
                                    The traffic volume changes found by comparing the Proposed Action
                                    to the No Action are generally and primarily consistent with what
                                    would be expected if the reconfiguration of the interchange made by
                                    constructing the Proposed Action resulted in better connectivity
                                    to/from I-25 and Pueblo West and the areas to the northwest and
                                    west. This data supports the conclusion that the connectivity to
                                    Pueblo West, the northwest, and west to/from I-25 will be improved if
                                    the Proposed Action is constructed.

                          5.0       Conclusions
                       5.1    Summary of Traffic Analysis Findings
                        5.1.1   Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017)
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the Proposed Action ­
                                    Implementation Year (2017) condition indicates that the roadway
                                    network within the study area has sufficient capacity to accommodate
                                    the Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) volume of traffic
                                    during the morning and evening peak periods at a LOS C or better. In
                                    fact, there is an overall improvement in freeway mainline, ramp/merge
                                    diverge and intersection operations with the Proposed Action
                                    Implementation Year (2017) alternative compared to the No-Action
                                    Implementation Year (2017) alternative.
                                    Compared to the No-Action Implementation Year (2017) scenario, the
                                    Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) results show that:


I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             26                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                        ·    In no instance is the LOS of any freeway segment, ramp
                                             merge/diverge point, or intersection worse in the Proposed
                                             Action (2017) scenario compared to the No-Action (2017)
                                             scenario.

                                        ·    In one instance the freeway mainline LOS is improved in the
                                             Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario
                                             compared to the No-Action Implementation Year (2017)
                                             scenario.

                                        ·    In one instance the ramp merge/diverge LOS is improved in
                                             the Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario
                                             compared to the No-Action Implementation Year (2017)
                                             scenario.

                                        ·    In one instance, the intersection LOS is improved in the
                                             Proposed Action ­ Implementation Year (2017) scenario
                                             compared to the No-Action Implementation Year (2017)
                                             scenario.

                                        ·    In all other instances, the LOS remains the same.

                         5.1.2      Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035)
                                    The results of the traffic operations analysis of the Proposed Action
                                    Design Year (2035) condition indicates that the volume of traffic on
                                    southbound I-25 within the study area begins to exceed the capacity
                                    of the roadway network at three locations (southbound I-25 between
                                    Dillon Drive and Eagleridge Boulevard; southbound I-25 south of
                                    Eagleridge Boulevard; and the southbound off- and on- ramp
                                    diverge/merge points at Eagleridge Boulevard) during the morning
                                    peak period.
                                    Except as pointed out above, the remainder of the freeway segments,
                                    ramp merge/diverge areas and intersections in the study area are
                                    anticipated to operate acceptably at LOS D or better during both the
                                    morning and evening peak periods. The results indicate that more
                                    capacity is required on southbound I-25. The intersection of
                                    Eagleridge Boulevard / Elizabeth Street needs improvement to
                                    accommodate the volume of traffic anticipated in No-Action ­ Design
                                    Year (2035) scenario. This intersection improvement is accomplished
                                    with the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) alternative. The
                                    remainder of the roadway network within the study area is anticipated
                                    to have sufficient capacity to accommodate the volume of traffic
                                    anticipated in Year 2035.
                                    Compared to the No-Action Design Year (2035) scenario, the
                                    Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) results show that:

                                        ·    In no instance is the LOS of any freeway segment, ramp
                                             merge/diverge point, or intersection worse in the Proposed
                                             Action (2035) scenario compared to the No-Action (2035)
                                             scenario.

I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             27                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                        ·    In one instance the ramp merge/diverge LOS is improved in
                                             the Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario compared
                                             to the No-Action Design Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    In five instances, the intersection LOS is improved in the
                                             Proposed Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario compared to
                                             the No-Action ­ Design Year (2035) scenario.

                                        ·    In all other instances, the LOS remains the same.

                       5.2     Summary of Connectivity Findings
                                    The number of route choices and directness of routes to/from I-25 and
                                    the northwest and west in the 2017 and 2035 No Action scenario were
                                    compared with the number of route choices and directness of routes
                                    to/from I-25 with the 2017 and 2035 Proposed Action scenario. It was
                                    concluded that the Proposed Action provides more, and more direct,
                                    travel routes to/from I-25 and areas to the northwest and west.

                                    Traffic volume changes that result from the Proposed Action were
                                    compared to traffic volume changes that would be expected if the
                                    regional connectivity were increased. The traffic volume changes with
                                    the Proposed Action were in alignment with those that should be
                                    expected. As a result of this analysis, it is concluded that the
                                    Proposed Action provides the improved regional connectivity desired
                                    to accommodate existing and planned growth along Dillon Drive and
                                    Platteville Boulevard west of I-25, and thus satisfies the Purpose and
                                    Need.


                       5.3     Overall Conclusion
                                    Therefore, it is concluded that constructing the Proposed Action will
                                    result in improved freeway, ramp merge/diverge and intersection
                                    operations compared to the No-Action - Implementation Year (2017)
                                    alternative and improved ramp merge/diverge and intersection
                                    operations compared to the No Action - Design Year (2035)
                                    alternative.
                                    It is also concluded that constructing the Proposed Action will result in
                                    better regional connectivity and more direct connections between I-25
                                    and Pueblo West and areas to the west.
                                    Given this information, it is concluded that the Proposed Action
                                    satisfies the FHWA and CDOT requirements in the IAR and SLS
                                    (respectively) because the Proposed Action to modify the existing full
                                    interchange at Platteville Boulevard to a split diamond interchange at
                                    Platteville Boulevard and Dillon Drive can be accomplished in a
                                    manner that "... does not have a significant adverse impact on the
                                    safety and operation of the Interstate facility based on an analysis of
                                    current and future traffic."
                                    And, based on the connectivity analysis, it is further concluded that
                                    the Proposed Action satisfies the Purpose and Need for improved
I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard             28                                  103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                           May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                    regional connectivity that is desired to accommodate existing and
                                    planned growth along Dillon Drive and Platteville Boulevard west of I-
                                    25.




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard            29                                 103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                         May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
Tables
Table 1 ­ AM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service
Table 2 ­ PM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard   30                     103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                    May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
Table 1. I-25 AM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service
                                                    Year 2008                                         Year 2017                                        Year 2035
                                                                                                                   Change from                                   Change from
                                                                                                  Proposed                                           Proposed
                                                                    Existing       No-Action                       No-Action to          No-Action               No-Action to
                                                                                                   Action                                             Action
                                                                                                                  Proposed Action                               Proposed Action
                      Mainline Segment
             SB I-25 North of Platteville Blvd                          A               B              B                                      D         D
             NB I-25 North of Platteville Blvd                          A               B              A                  +                   B         B
        SB I-25 Platteville Blvd to Eagleridge Blvd                     A               B              -                                      E         -
       NB I-25 Eagleridge Blvd to Platteville Blvd                      A               A              -                                      B         -
           SB I-25 Dillon Dr to Eagleridge Blvd                          -              -              B                                      -         E
           NB I-25 Eagleridge Blvd to Dillon Dr                          -              -              A                                      -         B
             SB I-25 South of Eagleridge Blvd                           B               C              C                                      F         F
             NB I-25 South of Eagleridge Blvd                           A               B              B                                      C         C
                    Ramp Merge/Diverge
               SB Platteville Blvd Off Ramp                             A               B              B                                      D         D
               NB Platteville Blvd On Ramp                              B               B              B                                      B         B
               SB Platteville Blvd On Ramp                              B               B              -                                      D         -
               NB Platteville Blvd Off Ramp                             B               B              -                                      C         -
                   SB Dillon Dr On Ramp                                  -              -              B                                      -         D
                  NB Dillon Dr Off Ramp                                  -              -              B                                      -         B             +
               SB Eagleridge Blvd Off Ramp                              B               B              B                                      F         F
               NB Eagleridge Blvd On Ramp                               B               B              B                                      B         B
               SB Eagleridge Blvd On Ramp                               B               C              C                                      F         F
               NB Eagleridge Blvd Off Ramp                              B               B              B                                      C         C
                          Intersection
                                         N Elizabeth St                 B               B              B                                      E         D             +
                                     Southbound Ramps                   A               A              A                                      B         B
      Eagleridge Blvd
                                     Northbound Ramps                   B               A              A                                      C         C
                                           Dillon Dr*                   A               B              B                                      C         B             +
                                         Frontage Road                  A               A              A                                      A         A
       Platteville Blvd
                                     Southbound Ramps                   A               A              A                                      A         A
       (Existing Eden)
                                     Northbound Ramps                   A               A              A                                      B         A             +
                                         N Elizabeth St*                A               B              B                                      C         C
          Dillon Dr                 Southbound On Ramp                   -              -              A                                      -         B
                                    Northbound Off Ramp                  -              -              A                                      -         A
Note: * Dillon Drive/Eagleridge Boulevard and N Elizabeth Street/Dillon Drive are signalized intersection in all scenarios expect existing.
     + Designates an improvement in LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
     - Designates a degradation in LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
       Designates no change to the LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
Table 2. I-25 PM Peak Hour Mainline, Ramp and Intersection Level of Service

                                                                   Year 2008                          Year 2017                                       Year 2035
                                                                                                                  Change from                                   Change from
                                                                                                  Proposed                                          Proposed
                                                                    Existing      No-Action                       No-Action to          No-Action               No-Action to
                                                                                                   Action                                            Action
                                                                                                                 Proposed Action                               Proposed Action
                      Mainline Segment
             SB I-25 North of Platteville Blvd                          B              B              B                                      B         B
             NB I-25 North of Platteville Blvd                          B              B              B                                      C         C
        SB I-25 Platteville Blvd to Eagleridge Blvd                     B              B               -                                     B         -
       NB I-25 Eagleridge Blvd to Platteville Blvd                      B              B               -                                     C         -
           SB I-25 Dillon Dr to Eagleridge Blvd                         -               -             B                                      -         B
           NB I-25 Eagleridge Blvd to Dillon Dr                         -               -             B                                      -         C
             SB I-25 South of Eagleridge Blvd                           B              B              B                                      C         C
             NB I-25 South of Eagleridge Blvd                           B              B              B                                      C         C
                    Ramp Merge/Diverge
               SB Platteville Blvd Off Ramp                             B              B              B                                      B         B
               NB Platteville Blvd On Ramp                              B              B              B                                      C         C
               SB Platteville Blvd On Ramp                              B              B               -                                     B         -
               NB Platteville Blvd Off Ramp                             B              B               -                                     C         -
                   SB Dillon Dr On Ramp                                 -               -             A                   +                  -         B
                  NB Dillon Dr Off Ramp                                 -               -             B                                      -         C
               SB Eagleridge Blvd Off Ramp                              B              B              B                                      B         B
               NB Eagleridge Blvd On Ramp                               B              B              B                                      C         C
               SB Eagleridge Blvd On Ramp                               B              B              B                                      C         C
               NB Eagleridge Blvd Off Ramp                              B              B              B                                      D         D
                          Intersection
                                         N Elizabeth St                 B              B              B                                      C         C

      Eagleridge Blvd
                                     Southbound Ramps                   A              A              A                                      B         A             +
                                     Northbound Ramps                   B              B              A                   +                  B         B
                                           Dillon Dr*                   D              B              B                                      C         C

                                         Frontage Road                  A              A              A                                      A         A
       Platteville Blvd
                                     Southbound Ramps                   A              A              A                                      A         A
       (Existing Eden)
                                     Northbound Ramps                   A              A              A                                      B         A             +
                                         N Elizabeth St*                A              B              B                                      C         C
          Dillon Dr                 Southbound On Ramp                  -               -             A                                      -         C
                                    Northbound Off Ramp                 -               -             A                                      -         A
Note: *Dillon Drive/Eagleridge Boulevard and N Elizabeth Street/Dillon Drive are signalized intersection in all scenarios expect existing.
     + Designates an improvement in LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
     - Designates a degradation in LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
       Designates no change to the LOS in Proposed Action Alternative as compared to No-Action Alternative
 Figures
 Figure 1 ­ Vicinity Map
 Figure 2 ­ Study Area
 Figure 3 ­ Proposed Action
 Figure 4 ­ Alternatives Evaluated
 Figure 5 ­ Alternatives Screening
 Figure 6 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes
 Figure 7 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Laneage
 Figure 8 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume and Arterial
            Turning Movements
 Figure 9 ­ Existing (Year 2008) Study Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and Intersection Level of
            Service
Figure 10 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Average Daily Traffic
            Volumes
Figure 11 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Laneage
Figure 12 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25
            Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
Figure 13 ­ No-Action ­ Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and
            Intersection Level of Service
Figure 14 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Average Daily
            Traffic Volumes
Figure 15 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Laneage
Figure 16 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline
            I-25 Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
Figure 17 ­ Proposed Action - Implementation Year (Year 2017) Study Area Mainline I-25, Ramp
            and Intersection Level of Service
Figure 18 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Average Daily Traffic Volumes
Figure 19 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Laneage
Figure 20 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25 Volume
            and Arterial Turning Movements
Figure 21 ­ No-Action ­ Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area, Mainline I-25, Ramp and
            Intersection Level of Service
Figure 22 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Average Daily Traffic
            Volumes
Figure 23 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Laneage
 I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard   31                               103325-PUEBL
 Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                              May 24, 2010
 Pueblo, Colorado
Figure 24 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Peak Hour Mainline I-25
            Volume and Arterial Turning Movements
Figure 25 ­ Proposed Action - Design Year (Year 2035) Study Area Mainline I-25, Ramp and
            Intersection Level of Service




 I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard   32                            103325-PUEBL
 Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                           May 24, 2010
 Pueblo, Colorado
                                                                          Appendix A
                          Travel Demand Modeling Assumptions and PACOG Concurrence Letter




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                              103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                          May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                                    Appendix B
                                                   Traffic Count Data




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard         103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                     May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                                                                                               File Name           : AM_8519 ELIZABETH&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                               Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                               Start Date          : 10/29/2008
                                                                                               Page No             :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  N ELIZABETH ST                                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD           N ELIZABETH ST                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                    Southbound                                           Westbound                 Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru   Left Peds                               Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru      Left Peds                Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        6     9   21     0                                   5   21    17      0      7     11    1     1                    2   65     7     0       173
  07:15 AM        5     7   18     1                                   8   25    14      0     14      5    8     0                    8   70    10     0       193
  07:30 AM        8    16   34     2                                  15   38    18      0      8      6    3     0                    7   93    15     0       263
  07:45 AM       11    22   52     0                                  21   49    19      0     12     15    7     0                    5  121    16     0       350
      Total      30    54  125     3                                  49  133    68      0     41     37   19     1                   22  349    48     0       979

  08:00 AM       7                11        32                0      17     52      20          0       15       14    10     0       8            79                     15   0    280
  08:15 AM       9                 5        27                0      20     19      12          0       26       18     6     1       7            63                     12   0    225
  08:30 AM       9                14        25                0      20     28      27          0        9       11     5     0      11            65                     12   0    236
  08:45 AM      10                22        34                0      15     48      18          0       11       16     7     0       6            63                     15   0    265
      Total     35                52       118                0      72    147      77          0       61       59    28     1      32           270                     54   0   1006

Grand Total     65           106            243                3    121     280   145           0      102       96    47      2     54           619               102        0   1985
 Apprch %     15.6          25.4           58.3              0.7   22.2    51.3   26.6          0     41.3      38.9    19   0.8      7           79.9              13.2       0
   Total %     3.3           5.3           12.2              0.2     6.1   14.1    7.3          0       5.1      4.8   2.4   0.1    2.7           31.2               5.1       0


                                                                                     N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                   Out      In    Total
                                                                                    319      417    736


                                                                                     65  106         243    3
                                                                                  Right Thru        Left Peds
                                   1167


                                            102




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                       121



                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     964

                                                                                                                                                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                              North
                                                       619
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            280
                              775
                             In




                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                  10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                             546
                                                   54




                                                                                  10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      145
                      392




                                                                                  Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                   1510
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                  Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                    47   96   102    2


                                                                                    305      247    552
                                                                                   Out      In    Total
                                                                                     N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                              File Name        : AM_8519 ELIZABETH&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                              Page No          :2

                   N ELIZABETH ST                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                 N ELIZABETH ST                                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                 Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM        8   16     34      2    60     15   38  18    0      71       8     6    3     0     17                      7         93           15            0   115     263
 07:45 AM      11    22     52      0    85     21   49  19    0      89      12    15    7     0     34                      5        121           16            0   142     350
 08:00 AM        7   11     32      0    50     17   52  20    0      89      15    14   10     0     39                      8         79           15            0   102     280
 08:15 AM        9     5    27      0    41     20   19  12    0      51      26    18    6     1     51                      7         63           12            0    82     225
 Total Volume  35    54 145         2   236     73 158   69    0   300        61    53   26     1  141                       27        356           58            0   441    1118
 % App. Total 14.8 22.9 61.4      0.8         24.3 52.7  23    0            43.3 37.6 18.4    0.7                            6.1 80.7 13.2    0
       PHF .795 .614 .697 .250                                 .694 .869 .760 .863 .000     .843 .587 .736 .650 .250   .691 .844 .736 .906 .000                        .776     .799

                                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                      184      236    420


                                                                                      35   54     145    2
                                                                                   Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       660


                                               58




                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                 73


                                                                                                                                              562

                                                                                                                                              EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                             North
                                                         356
                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                     158
                                441
                               In




                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM                                          300
                                                     27




                                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                                Unshifted
                                                                                                                                69
                        219
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                            862
                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      26   53    61    1


                                                                                      150      141    291
                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                        File Name             : AM_8520 SBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                        Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                        Start Date            : 10/29/2008
                                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    SB I-25 RAMPS                                    EAGLERIDGE BLVD             SB I-25 RAMPS                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     Southbound                                         Westbound                 Northbound                       Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds                           Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds         Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM       12       0     5     0                               0   40     4      0      0       0     0     0            45   50     0     0       156
  07:15 AM       14       0     6     0                               0   39     4      0      0       0     0     0            61   62     0     0       186
  07:30 AM       16       0     1     0                               0   45     8      0      0       0     0     0            68   38     0     0       176
  07:45 AM       17       1     5     0                               0   69     4      0      0       0     0     0          103    76     0     0       275
      Total      59       1    17     0                               0  193    20      0      0       0     0     0          277   226     0     0       793

  08:00 AM      19                     2          3           0      0    72       8          0        0       0   0    0      89            60                     0   0    253
  08:15 AM       9                     0          6           0      0    47      12          0        0       0   0    0      72            53                     0   0    199
  08:30 AM      24                     0          4           0      0    55       6          0        0       0   0    0      35            55                     0   0    179
  08:45 AM      11                     0         10           0      0    64      10          0        0       0   0    1      50            65                     0   0    211
      Total     63                     2         23           0      0   238      36          0        0       0   0    1     246           233                     0   0    842

Grand Total    122                 3          40              0      0    431     56          0        0       0   0     1    523           459                     0   0   1635
 Apprch %     73.9               1.8        24.2              0      0   88.5   11.5          0        0       0   0   100   53.3           46.7                    0   0
   Total %      7.5              0.2         2.4              0      0   26.4    3.4          0        0       0   0   0.1     32           28.1                    0   0


                                                                                       SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                 Out          In    Total
                                                                                       0       165   165


                                                                                  122     3         40    0
                                                                                Right Thru        Left Peds
                                    1535


                                                0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               499

                                                                                                                                               EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                            North
                                                        459
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      431
                               982
                              In




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                       487
                                                   523




                                                                                10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 56
                       553




                                                                                Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                             986
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                    0    0    0    1


                                                                                  582          1   583
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                     SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                              File Name            : AM_8520 SBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date           : 10/29/2008
                                                                                              Page No              :2

                    SB I-25 RAMPS                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                                                SB I-25 RAMPS                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                              Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM     17       1     5     0     23      0   69    4   0      73                                    0      0    0    0           0     103         76               0         0   179       275
 08:00 AM     19       2     3     0     24      0   72    8   0      80                                    0      0    0    0           0      89         60               0         0   149       253
 08:15 AM      9       0     6     0     15      0   47  12    0      59                                    0      0    0    0           0      72         53               0         0   125       199
 08:30 AM     24       0     4     0     28      0   55    6   0      61                                    0      0    0    0           0      35         55               0         0    90       179
 Total Volume 69       3    18     0     90      0 243   30    0   273                                      0      0    0    0           0     299        244               0         0   543       906
 % App. Total   76.7   3.3           20           0                      0   89   11    0               0    0    0    0                 55.1 44.9                          0         0
       PHF .719 .375 .750 .000                                   .804 .000 .844 .625 .000       .853 .000 .000 .000 .000            .000 .726 .803 .000 .000                              .758     .824

                                                                                             SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                       Out          In    Total
                                                                                             0        90     90


                                                                                        69     3       18    0
                                                                                     Right Thru      Left Peds




                                                                                   Peak Hour Data
                                         855


                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                       Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                 262

                                                                                                                                                                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                         EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                 North
                                                           244
                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                        243
                                  543
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM                                                           273
                                                      299




                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                  Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                   30
                          312
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                               535
                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                      Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                          0    0    0    0


                                                                                        332          0   332
                                                                                       Out        In    Total
                                                                                           SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                           File Name          : AM_8521 NBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                           Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                           Start Date         : 10/29/2008
                                                                                           Page No            :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    NB I-25 RAMPS                                   EAGLERIDGE BLVD             NB I-25 RAMPS                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     Southbound                                        Westbound                 Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds                          Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds              Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        0       0     0     0                             14   29     0      0     14       1    15     0                  0   37    17     0       127
  07:15 AM        0       0     0     0                             12   26     0      0     10       2    14     0                  0   38    29     0       131
  07:30 AM        0       0     0     0                              9   31     0      0     14       0    24     0                  0   29    10     0       117
  07:45 AM        0       0     0     0                             10   39     0      0     32       0    35     0                  0   70    10     0       196
      Total       0       0     0     0                             45  125     0      0     70       3    88     0                  0  174    66     0       571

  08:00 AM       0                    0              0       0     16     43       0          0       19       5     35     0        0           44                     18   0    180
  08:15 AM       0                    0              0       0     13     36       0          0       15       0     22     0        0           33                     27   0    146
  08:30 AM       0                    0              0       0     13     32       0          0       26       0     32     0        0           51                     11   0    165
  08:45 AM       0                    0              0       0     18     41       0          0       29       0     38     1        0           67                     11   0    205
      Total      0                    0              0       0     60    152       0          0       89       5    127     1        0          195                     67   0    696

Grand Total      0                    0              0       0    105     277      0          0      159        8    215     1       0          369                133       0   1267
 Apprch %        0                    0              0       0   27.5    72.5      0          0     41.5      2.1   56.1   0.3       0          73.5              26.5       0
   Total %       0                    0              0       0     8.3   21.9      0          0     12.5      0.6     17   0.1       0          29.1              10.5       0


                                                                                     NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                 Out        In    Total
                                                                                  246          0   246


                                                                                    0     0           0   0
                                                                                Right Thru        Left Peds
                                     994


                                            133




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                     105



                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                   528

                                                                                                                                                   EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                            North
                                                       369
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          277
                              502
                             In




                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                           382
                                                    0




                                                                                10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       0
                      492




                                                                                Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                 910
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 215     8  159    1


                                                                                       0       383   383
                                                                                 Out          In    Total
                                                                                       NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                              File Name        : AM_8521 NBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                              Page No          :2

                    NB I-25 RAMPS                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                 NB I-25 RAMPS                                            EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                         App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      0       0     0     0       0    16   43    0   0      59      19     5  35     0                            59          0         44           18            0    62       180
 08:15 AM      0       0     0     0       0    13   36    0   0      49      15     0  22     0                            37          0         33           27            0    60       146
 08:30 AM      0       0     0     0       0    13   32    0   0      45      26     0  32     0                            58          0         51           11            0    62       165
 08:45 AM      0       0     0     0       0    18   41    0   0      59      29     0  38     1                            68          0         67           11            0    78       205
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0       0    60 152     0   0   212        89     5 127     1                           222          0        195           67            0   262       696
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0          28.3 71.7    0   0            40.1   2.3 57.2  0.5                                   0 74.4 25.6    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                 .000 .833 .884 .000 .000        .898 .767 .250 .836 .250     .816 .000 .728 .620 .000                              .840     .849

                                                                                        NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                    Out        In    Total
                                                                                     132          0   132


                                                                                      0     0          0   0
                                                                                  Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                      541


                                              67




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                           60


                                                                                                                                                        284

                                                                                                                                                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                               North
                                                        195
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               152
                               262
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM                                                     212
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                                                                                                            0
                       279
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                      496
                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                    127     5   89    1


                                                                                          0       222   222
                                                                                    Out          In    Total
                                                                                          NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                                        File Name       : AM_8522 DILLON&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                                        Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                        Start Date      : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                        Page No         :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        DILLON DR                                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD               DILLON DR                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                        Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time    Right      Thru  Left                            Peds   Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru       Left            Peds   Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        1         0    0                                0       0    0     0      0      0      0    37                0      30    0     5     0        73
  07:15 AM        3         1    0                                0       0    0     0      0      0      1    37                0      34    0     3     0        79
  07:30 AM        6         1    0                                0       0    0     0      1      0      1    27                0      28    0     9     1        74
  07:45 AM        5         0    0                                0       0    0     0      0      0      4    36                0      47    0    30     0       122
      Total      15         2    0                                0       0    0     0      1      0      6   137                0    139     0    47     1       348

  08:00 AM       5                  0                  0          0      0     0      0          0        0       4     54       0     37             0                    14    0    114
  08:15 AM       5                  9                  0          0      0     0      0          0        0       1     38       0     22             0                     4    0     79
  08:30 AM       7                  3                  0          0      0     0      0          0        0       2     31       0     36             0                     2    0     81
  08:45 AM       4                  1                  0          0      0     0      0          0        0       2     47       0     60             0                    10    0    124
      Total     21                 13                  0          0      0     0      0          0        0       9    170       0    155             0                    30    0    398

Grand Total     36             15                      0          0      0     0      0          1        0      15    307       0    294             0                77         1   746
 Apprch %     70.6           29.4                      0          0      0     0      0        100        0      4.7   95.3      0     79             0              20.7       0.3
   Total %     4.8              2                      0          0      0     0      0        0.1        0        2   41.2      0   39.4             0              10.3       0.1


                                                                                           DILLON DR
                                                                                    Out        In    Total
                                                                                      92         51   143


                                                                                      36   15            0   0
                                                                                   Right Thru        Left Peds
                                      715


                                              77




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                           0


                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                               North
                                                           0
                                            Peds Right Thru
                               372
                              In




                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                                   10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                   294




                                                                                   10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                       Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                           0
                       343




                                                                                   Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                    307   15     0    0


                                                                                     309        322   631
                                                                                    Out        In    Total
                                                                                           DILLON DR
                                                                                                          File Name        : AM_8522 DILLON&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                                          Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                          Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                          Page No          :2

                       DILLON DR                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD                                                DILLON DR                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                                   Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                            Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM        5     0     0     0       5     0   0    0    0        0                                 0      4    54   0       58         37             0           14            0    51       114
 08:15 AM        5     9     0     0     14      0   0    0    0        0                                 0      1    38   0       39         22             0            4            0    26        79
 08:30 AM        7     3     0     0     10      0   0    0    0        0                                 0      2    31   0       33         36             0            2            0    38        81
 08:45 AM        4     1     0     0       5     0   0    0    0        0                                 0      2    47   0       49         60             0           10            0    70       124
 Total Volume  21    13      0     0     34      0   0    0    0        0                                 0      9   170   0      179        155             0           30            0   185       398
 % App. Total 61.8 38.2      0     0             0   0    0    0                                          0      5    95   0           83.8    0 16.2    0
       PHF .750 .361 .000 .000                                  .607 .000 .000 .000 .000      .000 .000 .563 .787 .000            .772 .646 .000 .536 .000                                 .661     .802

                                                                                             DILLON DR
                                                                                      Out        In    Total
                                                                                        39         34     73


                                                                                       21   13         0   0
                                                                                    Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                       376


                                               30




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                               North
                                                            0
                                             Peds Right Thru
                                185
                               In




                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                    155




                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                            0

                                                                                 Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                   0
                        191
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      170     9    0    0


                                                                                       168        179   347
                                                                                      Out        In    Total
                                                                                             DILLON DR
                                                                                             File Name        : AM_8533 ELIZABETH&PLATTEVILLE
                                                                                             Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                             Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  N ELIZABETH ST                                     PLATTEVILLE BLVD          N ELIZABETH ST                   PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                    Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                       Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru   Left Peds                              Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru      Left Peds           Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        0     0    0     0                                  0    9     2      0      0      0    4     0              11   27     0     0        53
  07:15 AM        0     0    0     0                                  0    5     2      0      1      0    5     0               8   33     0     0        54
  07:30 AM        0     0    0     0                                  0    3     0      0      3      0    3     0              17   40     0     0        66
  07:45 AM        0     0    0     0                                  0    7     3      0      1      0    1     0              26   29     0     0        67
      Total       0     0    0     0                                  0   24     7      0      5      0   13     0              62  129     0     0       240

  08:00 AM       0                     0              0       0      0     6       4          0        3      0     7    0     20            16                      0   0    56
  08:15 AM       0                     0              0       0      0     9       2          0        5      0     6    0      8            22                      0   0    52
  08:30 AM       0                     0              0       0      0     4       4          0        1      0     8    0     14            11                      0   0    42
  08:45 AM       0                     0              0       0      0     6       1          0        2      0     5    0     15            11                      0   0    40
      Total      0                     0              0       0      0    25      11          0       11      0    26    0     57            60                      0   0   190

Grand Total      0                     0              0       0      0     49    18           0       16      0     39   0    119           189                      0   0   430
 Apprch %        0                     0              0       0      0   73.1   26.9          0     29.1      0   70.9   0   38.6           61.4                     0   0
   Total %       0                     0              0       0      0   11.4    4.2          0      3.7      0    9.1   0   27.7            44                      0   0


                                                                                   N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                     0       0      0


                                                                                    0     0           0   0
                                                                                Right Thru        Left Peds
                                      396


                                                0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               205
                     PLATTEVILLE BLVD




                                                                                                                                               PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                            North
                                                        189
                                            Peds Right Thru
                              308




                                                                                                                                       49
                             In




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                   119




                                                                                                                                                        67




                                                                                10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 18
                       88




                                                                                Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                              272
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  39     0   16    0


                                                                                  137       55    192
                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                   N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                              File Name        : AM_8533 ELIZABETH&PLATTEVILLE
                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                              Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                              Page No          :2

                   N ELIZABETH ST                 PLATTEVILLE BLVD                N ELIZABETH ST                 PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                       Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total         Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
 07:15 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    5    2   0        7      1     0    5    0        6      8    33    0    0      41                54
 07:30 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    3    0   0        3      3     0    3    0        6     17    40    0    0      57                66
 07:45 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    7    3   0      10       1     0    1    0        2     26    29    0    0      55                67
 08:00 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    6    4   0      10       3     0    7    0      10      20    16    0    0      36                56
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0       0     0   21    9   0      30       8     0   16    0      24      71 118      0    0   189                 243
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0   70  30    0            33.3     0 66.7    0            37.6 62.4     0    0
        PHF .000 .000 .000 .000         .000 .000 .750 .563 .000  .750 .667 .000 .571 .000        .600 .683 .738 .000 .000        .829                .907

                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                         0       0      0


                                                                       0     0       0   0
                                                                   Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                        226


                                                  0




                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                              126
                       PLATTEVILLE BLVD




                                                                                                                              PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                             North
                                                          118
                                              Peds Right Thru
                                189




                                                                                                                        21
                               In




                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                      71




                                                                                                                                       30
                                                                                                                Left Peds




                                                                Unshifted
                                                                                                                    9
                         37
                       Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                             156
                                                                                                                        0




                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                      16     0    8    0


                                                                       80       24    104
                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                                                  File Name    : AM_8538 NI25&FRONTAGE
                                                                                                                  Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                                  Page No      :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           N I25                                            FRONTAGE RD                    N I25                         FRONTAGE RD
                        Southbound                                           Westbound                 Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time    Right      Thru    Left                          Peds   Right Thru    Left Peds Right Thru         Left       Peds   Right Thru     Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        0         0      2                              0       3     0    20      0     21      3       0           0       0      0     0     0        49
  07:15 AM        0         0      4                              0       7     0    15      0     37      2       0           0       0      0     0     0        65
  07:30 AM        0         4      5                              0       6     0     6      0     32      1       0           0       0      0     0     0        54
  07:45 AM        0         1      2                              0       2     0    13      0     36      1       0           0       0      0     0     0        55
      Total       0         5     13                              0      18     0    54      0    126      7       0           0       0      0     0     0       223

  08:00 AM       0                     0          2               0      3      0     10          0       20       1    0      0        0           0                     0   0    36
  08:15 AM       0                     1          1               0      9      0     11          0       19       5    0      0        0           0                     0   0    46
  08:30 AM       0                     2          3               0      5      0      8          0       11       0    0      0        0           0                     0   0    29
  08:45 AM       0                     1          7               0      7      0     11          0       21       0    0      0        0           0                     0   0    47
      Total      0                     4         13               0     24      0     40          0       71       6    0      0        0           0                     0   0   158

Grand Total      0              9             26                  0     42      0    94           0      197      13    0      0        0           0                     0   0   381
 Apprch %        0           25.7           74.3                  0   30.9      0   69.1          0     93.8      6.2   0      0        0           0                     0   0
   Total %       0            2.4            6.8                  0     11      0   24.7          0     51.7      3.4   0      0        0           0                     0   0


                                                                                                N I25
                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                       55          35        90


                                                                                        0     9         26    0
                                                                                    Right Thru        Left Peds
                                        0


                                                0




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                        42


                                                                                                                                                    223
                        FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                North
                                                           0
                                            Peds Right Thru
                                 0
                              In




                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                    10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                             136
                                                     0




                                                                                    10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       94
                          0




                                                                                    Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                   359
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0  13   197    0


                                                                                      103         210      313
                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                                N I25
                                                                                                                        File Name      : AM_8538 NI25&FRONTAGE
                                                                                                                        Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date     : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                                        Page No        :2

                          N I25                     FRONTAGE RD                                                      N I25                                 FRONTAGE RD
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right       Thru Left Peds                      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
 07:00 AM      0       0     2     0       2     3    0  20    0                                23        21        3     0   0       24          0             0               0          0          0         49
 07:15 AM      0       0     4     0       4     7    0  15    0                                22        37        2     0   0       39          0             0               0          0          0         65
 07:30 AM      0       4     5     0       9     6    0   6    0                                12        32        1     0   0       33          0             0               0          0          0         54
 07:45 AM      0       1     2     0       3     2    0  13    0                                15        36        1     0   0       37          0             0               0          0          0         55
 Total Volume  0       5    13     0     18     18    0  54    0                                72       126        7     0   0      133          0             0               0          0          0        223
 % App. Total  0 27.8 72.2         0            25    0  75    0                                  94.7   5.3   0    0                        0    0    0    0
      PHF .000 .313 .650 .000                                 .500 .643 .000 .675 .000       .783 .851 .583 .000 .000                .853 .000 .000 .000 .000                                    .000         .858

                                                                                               N I25
                                                                                    Out         In          Total
                                                                                      25          18           43


                                                                                      0     5             13    0
                                                                                  Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                       0


                                               0




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     18


                                                                                                                                                                     139
                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                                        FRONTAGE RD
                                                                                               North
                                                          0
                                           Peds Right Thru
                                0
                             In




                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                               72
                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                    54
                         0
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                    211
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       0    7  126    0


                                                                                      59         133         192
                                                                                    Out         In          Total
                                                                                               N I25
                                                                                               File Name         : AM_8539 SBI-25RAMPS&FRONTAGE
                                                                                               Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                               Start Date        : 10/29/2008
                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          I-25 SB                                          FRONTAGE RD                   I-25 SB                      FRONTAGE RD
                        Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                        Eastbound
Start Time    Right      Thru   Left                          Peds   Right Thru    Left Peds Right Thru        Left      Peds   Right Thru     Left Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        2         0     0                              0       0    19     1      0      0       0     0          0      25      0     0     0        47
  07:15 AM        0         0     0                              0       0    18     0      0      0       0     0          0      25      9     0     0        52
  07:30 AM        5         2     0                              0       0     8     0      0      0       0     0          0      37      6     0     0        58
  07:45 AM        3         0     1                              0       0     8     1      0      0       0     0          0      32      6     0     0        51
      Total      10         2     1                              0       0    53     2      0      0       0     0          0    119      21     0     0       208

  08:00 AM       2                     0              0          0      0     11      0          0        0      0   0      0     18             4                      0   0    35
  08:15 AM       7                     0              0          0      0     13      0          0        0      0   0      0     17             4                      0   0    41
  08:30 AM       3                     0              0          0      0     11      1          0        0      0   0      0     14             1                      0   0    30
  08:45 AM       6                     0              0          0      0     13      3          0        0      0   0      0     19             4                      0   0    45
      Total     18                     0              0          0      0     48      4          0        0      0   0      0     68            13                      0   0   151

Grand Total     28                 2             1               0      0    101       6         0        0      0   0      0    187            34                      0   0   359
 Apprch %     90.3               6.5           3.2               0      0   94.4     5.6         0        0      0   0      0   84.6           15.4                     0   0
   Total %     7.8               0.6           0.3               0      0   28.1     1.7         0        0      0   0      0   52.1            9.5                     0   0


                                                                                              I-25 SB
                                                                                    Out          In      Total
                                                                                          0        31       31


                                                                                      28     2           1   0
                                                                                   Right Thru        Left Peds
                                     350


                                                0




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                   35
                        FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                     FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                               North
                                                         34
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         101
                               221
                              In




                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                   10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                           107
                                                   187




                                                                                   10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      6
                       129




                                                                                   Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                 142
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       0    0    0    0


                                                                                     195            0     195
                                                                                    Out          In      Total
                                                                                              I-25 SB
                                                                                 File Name               : AM_8539 SBI-25RAMPS&FRONTAGE
                                                                                 Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                 Start Date              : 10/29/2008
                                                                                 Page No                 :2

                         I-25 SB                    FRONTAGE RD                                      I-25 SB                              FRONTAGE RD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                    Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds            App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right      Thru Left Peds                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
 07:00 AM        2     0      0    0       2     0   19    1   0                 20         0        0    0   0          0      25              0               0          0      25            47
 07:15 AM        0     0      0    0       0     0   18    0   0                 18         0        0    0   0          0      25              9               0          0      34            52
 07:30 AM        5     2      0    0       7     0    8    0   0                  8         0        0    0   0          0      37              6               0          0      43            58
 07:45 AM        3     0      1    0       4     0    8    1   0                  9         0        0    0   0          0      32              6               0          0      38            51
 Total Volume  10      2      1    0      13     0   53    2   0                 55         0        0    0   0          0     119             21               0          0     140           208
 % App. Total 76.9 15.4     7.7    0             0 96.4 3.6    0                            0        0    0   0                 85             15               0          0
        PHF .500 .250 .250 .000         .464 .000 .697 .500 .000              .688 .000 .000 .000 .000              .000 .804 .583 .000 .000                                     .814         .897

                                                                               I-25 SB
                                                                  Out             In         Total
                                                                        0           13          13


                                                                   10     2                  1   0
                                                                Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                    203


                                               0




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                      22
                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                        FRONTAGE RD
                                                                                North
                                                        21
                                           Peds Right Thru
                              140




                                                                                                                                          53
                             In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                  119




                                                                                                                                                               55
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                             Unshifted
                                                                                                                                      2
                       63
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                      77
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                     0    0    0    0


                                                                   123               0        123
                                                                  Out             In         Total
                                                                               I-25 SB
                                                                                            File Name           : AM_8540 NBI-25RAMPS&PACE
                                                                                            Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                            Start Date          : 10/29/2008
                                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    NB I-25 RAMPS                              PACE RD                 NB I-25 RAMPS                                    PACE RD
                     Southbound                               Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds               Right   Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds             Right           Thru   Left         Peds Int. Total
  07:00 AM        0       0     0     0                   0      0     0      0      1       0    19     0                 0              0     0             0        20
  07:15 AM        0       0     0     0                   0      0     0      0      0       0    20     0                 0              0     9             0        29
  07:30 AM        0       0     0     0                   1      0     0      0      0       0     8     0                 0              0     6             0        15
  07:45 AM        0       0     0     0                   0      1     0      0      0       0     9     0                 0              1     6             0        17
      Total       0       0     0     0                   1      1     0      0      1       0    56     0                 0              1    21             0        81

  08:00 AM       0         0              0       0      0       0      0          0        0       1     13       0        0             0           4       0        18
  08:15 AM       0         0              0       0      0       0      0          0        1       0     13       0        0             0           3       0        17
  08:30 AM       0         0              0       0      0       1      0          0        0       0     11       0        0             0           2       0        14
  08:45 AM       0         0              0       0      0       0      0          0        0       0     16       0        0             1           2       0        19
      Total      0         0              0       0      0       1      0          0        1       1     53       0        0             1          11       0        68

Grand Total      0         0              0       0      1       2      0          0        2        1    109      0        0             2           32      0       149
 Apprch %        0         0              0       0   33.3    66.7      0          0      1.8      0.9   97.3      0        0           5.9         94.1      0
   Total %       0         0              0       0    0.7     1.3      0          0      1.3      0.7   73.2      0        0           1.3         21.5      0


                                                                          NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                      Out        In    Total
                                                                        34          0     34


                                                                         0     0           0   0
                                                                     Right Thru        Left Peds
                        145


                                 32




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                       Total




                               Left




                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                             1


                                                                                                                                         4




                                                                                 North
                                              2
                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         PACE RD
                     PACE RD

                          34
                        In




                                                                                                                                   2



                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                     10/29/2008 07:00 AM
                                        0




                                                                     10/29/2008 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                         Left Peds



                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                             0
                        111




                                                                     Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                         Total
                                  0




                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                      109     1    2    0


                                                                            0       112   112
                                                                      Out          In    Total
                                                                            NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                                        File Name    : AM_8540 NBI-25RAMPS&PACE
                                                                                                        Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                        Start Date   : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                        Page No      :2

                    NB I-25 RAMPS                      PACE RD                                          NB I-25 RAMPS                                 PACE RD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                           Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right       Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
 07:00 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    0    0   0                          0        1      0  19      0        20         0             0        0    0         0           20
 07:15 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    0    0   0                          0        0      0  20      0        20         0             0        9    0         9           29
 07:30 AM      0       0     0     0       0     1    0    0   0                          1        0      0    8     0         8         0             0        6    0         6           15
 07:45 AM      0       0     0     0       0     0    1    0   0                          1        0      0    9     0         9         0             1        6    0         7           17
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0       0     1    1    0   0                          2        1      0  56      0        57         0             1       21    0        22           81
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0            50   50    0   0                                 1.8      0 98.2
                                                                                                            0                      0   4.5 95.5   0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                      .000 .250 .250 .000 .000          .500 .250 .000 .700 .000              .713 .000 .250 .583 .000                        .611         .698

                                                                             NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                         Out        In    Total
                                                                           22          0     22


                                                                           0     0                  0   0
                                                                       Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                           79


                                  21




                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                        Total




                                Left




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                             1


                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                       North
                                               1
                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                           PACE RD
                      PACE RD

                           22
                         In




                                                                                                                                                   1



                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                         0




                                                                                                                                         Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                 2

                                                                    Unshifted
                                                                                                                                             0
                          57
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                   0




                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                          56     0    1    0


                                                                               0        57     57
                                                                         Out          In    Total
                                                                               NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                            File Name           : PM_8519 ELIZABETH&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                            Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                            Start Date          : 10/29/2008
                                                                                            Page No             :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  N ELIZABETH ST                                    EAGLERIDGE BLVD           N ELIZABETH ST                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                    Southbound                                         Westbound                 Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru   Left Peds                             Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru      Left Peds               Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM       11    25   48     0                                37   93    37      0     25     23   20     0                  15   62    27     0       423
  04:15 PM       19    20   57     0                                40  107    19      0     27     35   23     0                  10   81    13     0       451
  04:30 PM       18    18   60     0                                47   94    35      0     31     30    9     0                   9   60    11     0       422
  04:45 PM       13    24   42     0                                54   79    30      0     26     35   11     0                  12   92    18     0       436
      Total      61    87  207     0                              178   373   121      0    109    123   63     0                  46  295    69     0     1732

  05:00 PM      14             38           57               0     57    94      34          0       27       27       9    0     13            79                      8   0    457
  05:15 PM      15             29           60               0     73   123      20          0       32       40      14    0     15            74                     20   0    515
  05:30 PM      10             19           56               0     57   101      34          0       35       39      18    0     19            84                     24   0    496
  05:45 PM       8             20           43               0     58    97      30          0       20       33       7    0     16            64                     10   0    406
      Total     47            106          216               0    245   415     118          0      114      139      48    0     63           301                     62   0   1874

Grand Total    108           193            423              0    423    788   239           0      223      262     111    0    109           596               131        0   3606
 Apprch %     14.9          26.7           58.4              0   29.2   54.3   16.5          0     37.4       44    18.6    0     13           71.3              15.7       0
   Total %       3           5.4           11.7              0   11.7   21.9    6.6          0       6.2      7.3     3.1   0      3           16.5               3.6       0


                                                                                  N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                Out      In    Total
                                                                                 816      724  1540


                                                                                 108  193         423    0
                                                                               Right Thru        Left Peds
                                   1843


                                            131




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                    423


                                                                                                                                                 1242
                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                           North
                                                       596
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         788
                              836
                             In




                                                                                                                                                        1450
                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                               10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                  109




                                                                               10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                   239
                     1007




                                                                               Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                2692
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                111  262   223    0


                                                                                 541      596  1137
                                                                                Out      In    Total
                                                                                  N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                              File Name        : PM_8519 ELIZABETH&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                              Page No          :2

                   N ELIZABETH ST                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                 N ELIZABETH ST                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      13    24     42     0     79     54   79  30    0   163        26    35   11    0      72      12   92    18    0   122                                   436
 05:00 PM      14    38     57     0    109     57   94  34    0   185        27    27    9    0      63      13   79     8    0   100                                   457
 05:15 PM      15    29     60     0    104     73 123   20    0   216        32    40   14    0      86      15   74    20    0   109                                   515
 05:30 PM      10    19     56     0     85     57 101   34    0   192        35    39   18    0      92      19   84    24    0   127                                   496
 Total Volume  52 110 215          0    377 241 397 118        0   756 120 141           52    0   313        59 329     70    0   458                                  1904
 % App. Total 13.8 29.2     57     0          31.9 52.5 15.6   0            38.3    45 16.6    0            12.9 71.8 15.3     0
       PHF .867 .724 .896 .000                                 .865 .825 .807 .868 .000     .875 .857 .881 .722 .000   .851 .776 .894 .729 .000                  .902     .924

                                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                      452      377    829


                                                                                      52  110     215    0
                                                                                   Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       959


                                               70




                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                241



                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                            664

                                                                                                                                            EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                             North
                                                         329
                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                     397
                                458
                               In




                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                        756
                                                     59




                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                               118




                                                                                Unshifted
                        501
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                          1420
                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      52  141   120    0


                                                                                      287      313    600
                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                           File Name             : PM_8520 SBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                           Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                           Start Date            : 10/29/2008
                                                                                           Page No               :1


                                                                              Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    SB I-25 RAMPS                                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD             SB I-25 RAMPS                   EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     Southbound                                           Westbound                 Northbound                        Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds                             Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds          Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM       28       0    27     3                                 0  149    28      0      0       0     0     0             46   86     0     0       367
  04:15 PM       26       0    12     0                                 0  133    25      0      0       0     0     0             64  112     0     0       372
  04:30 PM       28       0    15     0                                 0  148    30      0      0       0     0     0             64   97     0     0       382
  04:45 PM       23       0    17     1                                 0  153    28      0      0       0     0     0             58  104     0     0       384
      Total    105        0    71     4                                 0  583   111      0      0       0     0     0           232   399     0     0     1505

  05:00 PM      29                     0         21            1       0    154      34          0        0       0   0    1      73            80                     0   0    393
  05:15 PM      24                     3         17            0       0    180      34          0        0       0   0    3      53           106                     0   0    420
  05:30 PM      31                     0         17            0       0    187      28          0        0       0   0    2      63           116                     0   0    444
  05:45 PM      36                     1         15            0       0    146      30          0        0       0   0    1      56            75                     0   0    360
      Total    120                     4         70            1       0    667     126          0        0       0   0    7     245           377                     0   0   1617

Grand Total    225                 4         141                5      0   1250    237           0        0       0   0     7    477           776                     0   0   3122
 Apprch %        60              1.1        37.6              1.3      0    84.1   15.9          0        0       0   0   100   38.1           61.9                    0   0
   Total %      7.2              0.1         4.5              0.2      0      40    7.6          0        0       0   0   0.2   15.3           24.9                    0   0


                                                                                          SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                    Out          In    Total
                                                                                          0       375   375


                                                                                     225     4        141    5
                                                                                   Right Thru        Left Peds
                                    2728


                                                0




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                  917

                                                                                                                                                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                      0 1250




                                                                                               North
                                                        776
                                            Peds Right Thru
                             1253
                              In




                                                                                                                                                        1487
                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                   10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                   477




                                                                                   10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                   237
                      1475




                                                                                   Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                2404
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       0    0    0    7


                                                                                     718          7   725
                                                                                    Out        In    Total
                                                                                        SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                               File Name            : PM_8520 SBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                               Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                               Start Date           : 10/29/2008
                                                                                               Page No              :2

                    SB I-25 RAMPS                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                                                 SB I-25 RAMPS                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                                      Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                               Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      23      0    17     1     41      0 153   28    0   181                                       0      0    0    0           0      58        104               0         0   162     384
 05:00 PM      29      0    21     1     51      0 154   34    0   188                                       0      0    0    1           1      73         80               0         0   153     393
 05:15 PM      24      3    17     0     44      0 180   34    0   214                                       0      0    0    3           3      53        106               0         0   159     420
 05:30 PM      31      0    17     0     48      0 187   28    0   215                                       0      0    0    2           2      63        116               0         0   179     444
 Total Volume 107      3    72     2    184      0 674 124     0   798                                       0      0    0    6           6     247        406               0         0   653    1641
 % App. Total   58.2   1.6 39.1                1.1                        0 84.5 15.5    0               0    0    0 100                  37.8 62.2                          0         0
       PHF .863 .250 .857 .500                                    .902 .000 .901 .912 .000       .928 .000 .000 .000 .500            .500 .846 .875 .000 .000                              .912     .924

                                                                                              SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                        Out          In    Total
                                                                                              0       184   184


                                                                                        107     3       72    2
                                                                                      Right Thru      Left Peds




                                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                                       1434


                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                       Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  478

                                                                                                                                                                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                         EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                  North
                                                            406
                                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                         674
                                  653
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                                           798
                                                       247




                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                   124




                                                                                   Unshifted
                          781
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                1276
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                           0    0    0    6


                                                                                         374          6   380
                                                                                        Out        In    Total
                                                                                            SB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                             File Name           : PM_8521 NBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                             Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                             Start Date          : 10/29/2008
                                                                                             Page No             :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    NB I-25 RAMPS                                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD             NB I-25 RAMPS                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                             Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds                            Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds               Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM        0       0     0     4                               26  115     0      2     31       1    61     0                   0  100    13     0       353
  04:15 PM        0       0     0     2                               14  106     0      3     47       0    62     0                   0  104    20     0       358
  04:30 PM        0       0     0     0                               15  113     0      0     35       0    65     0                   0   92    20     0       340
  04:45 PM        0       0     0     1                               19  117     0      1     40       0    56     0                   0  102    18     0       354
      Total       0       0     0     7                               74  451     0      6    153       1   244     0                   0  398    71     0     1405

  05:00 PM       0                    0              0         1     19    120       0          0        32       0     66     1        0           90                     12   0    341
  05:15 PM       0                    0              0         0     28    139       0          0        36       1     69     1        0          112                     11   0    397
  05:30 PM       0                    0              0         0     21    139       0          0        37       1     83     2        0          115                     17   0    415
  05:45 PM       0                    0              0         0     16    113       0          0        49       0     67     0        0           84                      9   0    338
      Total      0                    0              0         1     84    511       0          0       154       2    285     4        0          401                     49   0   1491

Grand Total      0                    0              0         8    158     962      0           6      307        3    529     4       0          799                120       0   2896
 Apprch %        0                    0              0       100      14   85.4      0         0.5     36.4      0.4   62.8   0.5       0          86.9              13.1       0
   Total %       0                    0              0       0.3     5.5   33.2      0         0.2     10.6      0.1   18.3   0.1       0          27.6                4.1      0


                                                                                       NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                   Out        In    Total
                                                                                    281          8   289


                                                                                      0     0            0   8
                                                                                  Right Thru         Left Peds
                                   2410


                                            120




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                        158


                                                                                                                                                     1106
                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                     EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                              North
                                                       799
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                             962
                              919
                             In




                                                                                                                                                            1126
                                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                                  10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                    0




                                                                                  10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                          0
                     1491




                                                                                  Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                    2232
                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                  Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   529     3  307    4


                                                                                         0       843   843
                                                                                   Out          In    Total
                                                                                         NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                              File Name        : PM_8521 NBI-25RAMPS&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                              Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                              Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                              Page No          :2

                    NB I-25 RAMPS                 EAGLERIDGE BLVD                 NB I-25 RAMPS                                            EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                         App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     1       1    19 117     0   1   137        40     0  56     0                            96          0        102           18            0   120     354
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     1       1    19 120     0   0   139        32     0  66     1                            99          0         90           12            0   102     341
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0       0    28 139     0   0   167        36     1  69     1                           107          0        112           11            0   123     397
 05:30 PM      0       0     0     0       0    21 139     0   0   160        37     1  83     2                           123          0        115           17            0   132     415
 Total Volume  0       0     0     2       2    87 515     0   1   603 145           2 274     4                           425          0        419           58            0   477    1507
 % App. Total  0       0     0 100            14.4 85.4    0 0.2            34.1   0.5 64.5  0.9                                   0 87.8 12.2    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .500                                 .500 .777 .926 .000 .250        .903 .906 .500 .825 .500     .864 .000 .911 .806 .000                              .903     .908

                                                                                        NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                                    Out        In    Total
                                                                                     147          2   149


                                                                                      0     0          0   2
                                                                                  Right Thru       Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                    1266


                                              58




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                           87


                                                                                                                                                        564

                                                                                                                                                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                               North
                                                        419
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               515
                               477
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                                     603
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                               Unshifted
                                                                                                                                            0
                       789
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                      1167
                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                    274     2  145    4


                                                                                          0       425   425
                                                                                    Out          In    Total
                                                                                          NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                      File Name      : PM_8522 DILLON&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                      Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                      Start Date     : 10/29/2008
                                                                      Page No        :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                      DILLON DR               EAGLERIDGE BLVD               DILLON DR               EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                 Westbound                 Northbound                  Eastbound
Start Time    Right    Thru  Left   Peds   Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru       Left   Peds   Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM       12       2    0       0       0    0     0      1      0      8   119       6      60    1    20     0       229
  04:15 PM        8       5    0       0       0    0     0      0      0     12    99       0      77    0    29     0       230
  04:30 PM       22      12    0       0       0    0     0      0      0      8   100       0      75    0    19     0       236
  04:45 PM       14      10    0       1       0    0     0      0      0     20   126       0      71    0    27     1       270
      Total      56      29    0       1       0    0     0      1      0     48   444       6    283     1    95     1       965

  05:00 PM      20      12     0       0      0     0      0      1     0      7   104       0     68      0    18      0     230
  05:15 PM      19      11     0       0      0     0      0      0     0      9   142       0     91      0    24      0     296
  05:30 PM      16       8     0       0      0     0      0      0     0     16   134       0     89      0    23      0     286
  05:45 PM      10      12     0       0      0     0      0      0     0     13   114       0     74      0    13      0     236
      Total     65      43     0       0      0     0      0      1     0     45   494       0    322      0    78      0    1048

Grand Total    121       72    0       1      0     0      0      2     0    93    938       6    605      1    173     1    2013
 Apprch %     62.4     37.1    0     0.5      0     0      0    100     0      9   90.5    0.6   77.6    0.1   22.2   0.1
   Total %       6      3.6    0       0      0     0      0    0.1     0    4.6   46.6    0.3   30.1      0    8.6     0
                                                                                                          File Name       : PM_8522 DILLON&EAGLERIDGE
                                                                                                          Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                          Start Date      : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                          Page No         :2

                       DILLON DR                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD                                                DILLON DR                        EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                                   Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                            Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                      Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      14    10      0     1     25      0   0    0    0        0                                 0    20 126      0      146         71             0           27            1    99     270
 05:00 PM      20    12      0     0     32      0   0    0    1        1                                 0      7 104     0      111         68             0           18            0    86     230
 05:15 PM      19    11      0     0     30      0   0    0    0        0                                 0      9 142     0      151         91             0           24            0   115     296
 05:30 PM      16      8     0     0     24      0   0    0    0        0                                 0    16 134      0      150         89             0           23            0   112     286
 Total Volume  69    41      0     1    111      0   0    0    1        1                                 0     52 506     0      558        319             0           92            1   412    1082
 % App. Total 62.2 36.9      0 0.9               0   0    0 100                                           0    9.3 90.7
                                                                                                                     0                 77.4    0 22.3  0.2
       PHF .863 .854 .000 .250                                  .867 .000 .000 .000 .250      .250 .000 .650 .891 .000            .924 .876 .000 .852 .250                                 .896     .914

                                                                                             DILLON DR
                                                                                      Out        In    Total
                                                                                       144        111   255


                                                                                       69   41         0   1
                                                                                    Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                       987


                                               92




                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  EAGLERIDGE BLVD
                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD




                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                               North
                                                            0
                                             Peds Right Thru
                                412
                               In




                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                    319




                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                            1

                                                                                 Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                   0
                        575
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      506   52     0    0


                                                                                       360        558   918
                                                                                      Out        In    Total
                                                                                             DILLON DR
                                                                                             File Name        : PM_8533 ELIZABETH&PLATTEVILLE
                                                                                             Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                             Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  N ELIZABETH ST                                     PLATTEVILLE BLVD          N ELIZABETH ST                   PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                    Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                       Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru   Left Peds                              Right Thru   Left Peds Right Thru      Left Peds           Right Thru   Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM        0     0    0     0                                  0   20     3      0      3      0   15     0              18    5     0     0        64
  04:15 PM        0     0    0     0                                  0   26     7      0      6      0   13     0              10   12     0     0        74
  04:30 PM        0     0    0     0                                  0   18     5      0      9      0   17     0              13   14     0     0        76
  04:45 PM        0     0    0     0                                  0   21     5      0      7      0   20     0              14    9     0     0        76
      Total       0     0    0     0                                  0   85    20      0     25      0   65     0              55   40     0     0       290

  05:00 PM       0                     0              0       0      0    34      13          0        8      0    22    0     21             7                      0   0   105
  05:15 PM       0                     0              0       0      0    25       4          0        1      0    14    0     18             7                      0   0    69
  05:30 PM       0                     0              0       0      0    32       8          0        7      0    12    0     12             9                      0   0    80
  05:45 PM       0                     0              0       0      0    29       9          0        5      0    15    0      9             4                      0   0    71
      Total      0                     0              0       0      0   120      34          0       21      0    63    0     60            27                      0   0   325

Grand Total      0                     0              0       0      0    205     54          0       46      0    128   0    115            67                      0   0   615
 Apprch %        0                     0              0       0      0   79.2   20.8          0     26.4      0   73.6   0   63.2           36.8                     0   0
   Total %       0                     0              0       0      0   33.3    8.8          0      7.5      0   20.8   0   18.7           10.9                     0   0


                                                                                   N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                     0       0      0


                                                                                    0     0           0   0
                                                                                Right Thru        Left Peds
                                      515


                                                0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               113
                     PLATTEVILLE BLVD




                                                                                                                                               PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                            North
                                                         67
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      205
                              182
                             In




                                                                                                                                                      In




                                                                                10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                       259
                                                   115




                                                                                10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 54
                      333




                                                                                Unshifted
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                              372
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 128     0   46    0


                                                                                  169      174    343
                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                   N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                               File Name        : PM_8533 ELIZABETH&PLATTEVILLE
                                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                               Start Date       : 10/29/2008
                                                                                               Page No          :2

                   N ELIZABETH ST                 PLATTEVILLE BLVD                N ELIZABETH ST                                  PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                  Right Thru Left Peds App. Total                       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
 04:15 PM      0       0     0     0       0     0   26    7   0      33       6     0   13    0      19                      10            12               0          0    22        74
 04:30 PM      0       0     0     0       0     0   18    5   0      23       9     0   17    0      26                      13            14               0          0    27        76
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     0       0     0   21    5   0      26       7     0   20    0      27                      14             9               0          0    23        76
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0       0     0   34  13    0      47       8     0   22    0      30                      21             7               0          0    28       105
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0       0     0   99  30    0   129        30     0   72    0   102                        58            42               0          0   100       331
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0 76.7 23.3   0            29.4     0 70.6    0                               58   42    0    0
       PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .728 .577 .000     .686 .833 .000 .818 .000   .850 .690 .750 .000 .000                            .893     .788

                                                                                        N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                          0       0      0


                                                                                        0     0       0   0
                                                                                    Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                                                  Peak Hour Data
                                        271


                                                  0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                 Out
                       PLATTEVILLE BLVD




                                                                                                                                                  PLATTEVILLE BLVD
                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                   72
                                                                                              North
                                                           42
                                              Peds Right Thru
                                100




                                                                                                                                       99
                               In




                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM                                             129
                                                      58




                                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                 Unshifted
                                                                                                                                 30
                        171
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                 201
                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       72     0   30    0


                                                                                        88      102    190
                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                        N ELIZABETH ST
                                                                                                                  File Name    : PM_8538 NI25&FRONTAGE
                                                                                                                  Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                                  Page No      :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           N I25                                            FRONTAGE RD                    N I25                         FRONTAGE RD
                        Southbound                                           Westbound                 Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time    Right      Thru    Left                          Peds   Right Thru    Left Peds Right Thru         Left       Peds   Right Thru     Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM        0         3      7                              0       0     0    29      0     21      1       0           0       0      0     0     0        61
  04:15 PM        0         1      5                              0       2     0    20      0     18      2       0           0       0      0     0     0        48
  04:30 PM        0         1      5                              0       3     0    25      0     25      0       0           0       0      0     0     0        59
  04:45 PM        0         3      7                              0       6     0    25      0     18      1       0           0       0      0     0     0        60
      Total       0         8     24                              0      11     0    99      0     82      4       0           0       0      0     0     0       228

  05:00 PM       0                  8             6               0      7      0     42          0       10       2    0      0        0           0                     0   0    75
  05:15 PM       0                  2             9               0      0      0     36          0        4       1    0      0        0           0                     0   0    52
  05:30 PM       0                  5             3               0      1      0     33          0       16       1    0      0        0           0                     0   0    59
  05:45 PM       0                  2             2               0      1      0     25          0       13       1    0      0        0           0                     0   0    44
      Total      0                 17            20               0      9      0    136          0       43       5    0      0        0           0                     0   0   230

Grand Total      0             25             44                  0     20      0   235           0      125        9   0      0        0           0                     0   0   458
 Apprch %        0           36.2           63.8                  0    7.8      0   92.2          0     93.3      6.7   0      0        0           0                     0   0
   Total %       0            5.5            9.6                  0    4.4      0   51.3          0     27.3        2   0      0        0           0                     0   0


                                                                                                N I25
                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                       29          69        98


                                                                                        0   25          44    0
                                                                                    Right Thru        Left Peds
                                        0


                                                0




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                        20


                                                                                                                                                    169
                        FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                North
                                                           0
                                            Peds Right Thru
                                 0
                              In




                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                    10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                             255
                                                     0




                                                                                    10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      235
                          0




                                                                                    Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                   424
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0    9  125    0


                                                                                      260         134      394
                                                                                     Out         In       Total
                                                                                                N I25
                                                                                                                        File Name      : PM_8538 NI25&FRONTAGE
                                                                                                                        Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date     : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                                        Page No        :2

                          N I25                     FRONTAGE RD                                                      N I25                                 FRONTAGE RD
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right       Thru Left Peds                      App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      0       1     5     0       6     3    0  25    0                              28          25        0     0   0        25         0             0               0          0          0         59
 04:45 PM      0       3     7     0     10      6    0  25    0                              31          18        1     0   0        19         0             0               0          0          0         60
 05:00 PM      0       8     6     0     14      7    0  42    0                              49          10        2     0   0        12         0             0               0          0          0         75
 05:15 PM      0       2     9     0     11      0    0  36    0                              36           4        1     0   0         5         0             0               0          0          0         52
 Total Volume  0     14     27     0     41     16    0 128    0                             144          57        4     0   0        61         0             0               0          0          0        246
 % App. Total  0 34.1 65.9         0          11.1    0 88.9   0                                  93.4   6.6   0    0                        0    0    0    0
      PHF .000 .438 .750 .000                                 .732 .571 .000 .762 .000       .735 .570 .500 .000 .000                .610 .000 .000 .000 .000                                    .000         .820

                                                                                               N I25
                                                                                    Out         In          Total
                                                                                      20          41           61


                                                                                      0   14              27    0
                                                                                  Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                       0


                                               0




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     16


                                                                                                                                                                      84
                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                                        FRONTAGE RD
                                                                                               North
                                                          0
                                           Peds Right Thru
                                0
                             In




                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM                                                                   144
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                   128




                                                                               Unshifted
                         0
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                    228
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       0    4   57    0


                                                                                     142          61         203
                                                                                    Out         In          Total
                                                                                               N I25
                                                                                               File Name         : PM_8539 SBI-25RAMPS&FRONTAGE
                                                                                               Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                               Start Date        : 10/29/2008
                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          I-25 SB                                          FRONTAGE RD                   I-25 SB                      FRONTAGE RD
                        Southbound                                          Westbound                 Northbound                        Eastbound
Start Time    Right      Thru   Left                          Peds   Right Thru    Left Peds Right Thru        Left      Peds   Right Thru     Left Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM       11         0     1                              0       0    17     2      0      0       0     0          0      19      9     0     0        59
  04:15 PM        4         0     0                              0       0    16     4      0      0       0     0          0      17      5     0     0        46
  04:30 PM        6         0     1                              0       0    20     4      0      0       0     0          0      22      5     0     0        58
  04:45 PM       10         0     0                              0       0    20     2      0      0       0     0          0      22      2     0     0        56
      Total      31         0     2                              0       0    73    12      0      0       0     0          0      80     21     0     0       219

  05:00 PM      10                     0              0          0      0     43      0          0        0      0   0      0     19             1                      0   0    73
  05:15 PM       3                     0              0          0      0     34      2          0        0      0   0      0      9             5                      0   0    53
  05:30 PM      10                     0              0          0      0     23      2          0        0      0   0      0     12             7                      0   0    54
  05:45 PM       7                     0              0          0      0     18      0          0        0      0   0      0     12             2                      0   0    39
      Total     30                     0              0          0      0    118      4          0        0      0   0      0     52            15                      0   0   219

Grand Total     61                     0         2               0      0    191      16         0        0      0   0      0    132            36                      0   0   438
 Apprch %     96.8                     0       3.2               0      0   92.3     7.7         0        0      0   0      0   78.6           21.4                     0   0
   Total %    13.9                     0       0.5               0      0   43.6     3.7         0        0      0   0      0   30.1            8.2                     0   0


                                                                                              I-25 SB
                                                                                    Out          In      Total
                                                                                          0        63       63


                                                                                      61     0           2   0
                                                                                   Right Thru        Left Peds
                                     420


                                                0




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                    Total




                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                   38
                        FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                     FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                               North
                                                         36
                                            Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         191
                               168
                              In




                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                   10/29/2008 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                           207
                                                   132




                                                                                   10/29/2008 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                    16
                       252




                                                                                   Unshifted
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                 245
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                   Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       0    0    0    0


                                                                                     148            0     148
                                                                                    Out          In      Total
                                                                                              I-25 SB
                                                                                 File Name               : PM_8539 SBI-25RAMPS&FRONTAGE
                                                                                 Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                 Start Date              : 10/29/2008
                                                                                 Page No                 :2

                         I-25 SB                    FRONTAGE RD                                      I-25 SB                              FRONTAGE RD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                    Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds            App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right      Thru Left Peds                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM        6     0      1    0       7     0   20    4   0               24           0        0    0   0          0      22              5               0          0        27          58
 04:45 PM      10      0      0    0      10     0   20    2   0               22           0        0    0   0          0      22              2               0          0        24          56
 05:00 PM      10      0      0    0      10     0   43    0   0               43           0        0    0   0          0      19              1               0          0        20          73
 05:15 PM        3     0      0    0       3     0   34    2   0               36           0        0    0   0          0       9              5               0          0        14          53
 Total Volume  29      0      1    0      30     0 117     8   0              125           0        0    0   0          0      72             13               0          0        85         240
 % App. Total 96.7     0    3.3    0             0 93.6 6.4    0                            0        0    0   0          84.7 15.3                              0          0
        PHF .725 .000 .250 .000         .750 .000 .680 .500 .000              .727 .000 .000 .000 .000              .000 .818 .650 .000 .000                                     .787         .822

                                                                               I-25 SB
                                                                  Out             In         Total
                                                                        0           30          30


                                                                   29     0                  1   0
                                                                Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                    231


                                               0




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                   Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                                                                                                      14
                       FRONTAGE RD




                                                                                                                                                        FRONTAGE RD
                                                                                North
                                                        13
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         117
                               85
                             In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM                                                                     125
                                                   72




                                                                                                                                  Left Peds




                                                             Unshifted
                                                                                                                                      8
                      146
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                    139
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                 Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                     0    0    0    0


                                                                    80               0          80
                                                                  Out             In         Total
                                                                               I-25 SB
                                                                        File Name      : PM_8540 NBI-25RAMPS&PACE
                                                                        Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                        Start Date     : 10/29/2008
                                                                        Page No        :1


                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    NB I-25 RAMPS                 PACE RD                  NB I-25 RAMPS                 PACE RD
                     Southbound                   Westbound                 Northbound                   Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru      Left Peds   Right   Thru   Left Peds Right Thru        Left Peds   Right   Thru   Left   Peds Int. Total
  04:00 PM        0       0     0     0       1      1     0      0      1       3    19     0       0      1    10       0        36
  04:15 PM        0       0     0     0       0      4     0      0      1       1    16     0       0      0     4       0        26
  04:30 PM        0       0     0     0       0      5     0      0      4       1    16     0       0      1     8       0        35
  04:45 PM        0       0     0     0       0      2     0      0      1       1    21     0       0      0     1       0        26
      Total       0       0     0     0       1     12     0      0      7       6    72     0       0      2    23       0       123

  05:00 PM       0      0      0     0       0       3     0      0      0     0     37     0       0       2     1       0        43
  05:15 PM       0      0      0     0       0       1     0      0      1     2     38     0       0       0     4       0        46
  05:30 PM       0      0      0     0       0       2     0      0      1     1     20     0       0       2     5       0        31
  05:45 PM       0      0      0     0       0       1     0      0      2     0     20     0       0       0     1       0        24
      Total      0      0      0     0       0       7     0      0      4     3    115     0       0       4    11       0       144

Grand Total      0      0      0     0        1     19     0      0     11      9    187    0       0       6     34      0       267
 Apprch %        0      0      0     0        5     95     0      0    5.3    4.3   90.3    0       0      15     85      0
   Total %       0      0      0     0      0.4    7.1     0      0    4.1    3.4     70    0       0     2.2   12.7      0
                                                                                                            File Name    : PM_8540 NBI-25RAMPS&PACE
                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date   : 10/29/2008
                                                                                                            Page No      :2

                    NB I-25 RAMPS                      PACE RD                                               NB I-25 RAMPS                                PACE RD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                    App. Total    Right      Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right      Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0    5    0   0                          5          4         1  16     0       21           0            1        8    0         9          35
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0    2    0   0                          2          1         1  21     0       23           0            0        1    0         1          26
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0    3    0   0                          3          0         0  37     0       37           0            2        1    0         3          43
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0    1    0   0                          1          1         2  38     0       41           0            0        4    0         4          46
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0   11    0   0                         11          6         4 112     0      122           0            3       14    0        17         150
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0 100     0   0                                   4.9      03.3 91.8                  0 17.6 82.4    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                      .000 .000 .550 .000 .000          .550 .375 .500 .737 .000                  .744 .000 .375 .438 .000                       .472          .815

                                                                             NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                                         Out        In    Total
                                                                           18          0     18


                                                                           0     0                      0      0
                                                                       Right Thru                Left       Peds




                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                         140


                                  14




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                        Total




                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                        North
                                               3
                                Peds Right Thru
                      PACE RD




                                                                                                                                                               PACE RD
                           17




                                                                                                                                                      11
                         In




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                         0




                                                                                                                                              Left Peds




                                                                    Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                  0
                         123
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                         112     4    6    0


                                                                                0       122    122
                                                                         Out           In    Total
                                                                                NB I-25 RAMPS
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                             Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                           Site Code: 5
                                                                                                           Station ID: 5
                                                                                       DILLON DR N/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB         SB                                                               Total
  12:00 AM                             1          1                                                                  2
      01:00                            1          2                                                                  3
      02:00                            0          1                                                                  1
      03:00                            1          0                                                                  1
      04:00                            1          2                                                                  3
      05:00                            5          2                                                                  7
      06:00                           27         10                                                                 37
      07:00                           55         21                                                                 76
      08:00                           34         39                                                                 73
      09:00                           35         37                                                                 72
      10:00                           49         42                                                                 91
      11:00                           68         51                                                                119
  12:00 PM                            75         73                                                                148
      01:00                           71         73                                                                144
      02:00                           69         60                                                                129
      03:00                           83         54                                                                137
      04:00                          130         94                                                                224
      05:00                          126        108                                                                234
      06:00                           99        102                                                                201
      07:00                           71        110                                                                181
      08:00                           28         62                                                                 90
      09:00                           10         42                                                                 52
      10:00                            7         21                                                                 28
      11:00                            2         11                                                                 13
       Total                       1048       1018                                                                2066
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%
  AM Peak                          11:00      11:00                                                              11:00
        Vol.                          68         51                                                                119
  PM Peak                          16:00      19:00                                                              17:00
        Vol.                         130        110                                                                234
Grand Total                         1048       1018                                                               2066
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                               Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                             Site Code: 6
                                                                                                             Station ID: 6
                                                                                       N ELIZABETH ST N/O LOCAL ACCESS




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB         SB                                                                 Total
  12:00 AM                             6          7                                                                   13
      01:00                            5          6                                                                   11
      02:00                            2          4                                                                    6
      03:00                            3          4                                                                    7
      04:00                            6          4                                                                   10
      05:00                           30         20                                                                   50
      06:00                           40         32                                                                   72
      07:00                           40         86                                                                  126
      08:00                           75         94                                                                  169
      09:00                           98        100                                                                  198
      10:00                          175        144                                                                  319
      11:00                          258        228                                                                  486
  12:00 PM                           278        246                                                                  524
      01:00                          237        266                                                                  503
      02:00                          252        271                                                                  523
      03:00                          220        223                                                                  443
      04:00                          248        224                                                                  472
      05:00                          326        262                                                                  588
      06:00                          249        237                                                                  486
      07:00                          190        172                                                                  362
      08:00                           94        144                                                                  238
      09:00                           48        123                                                                  171
      10:00                           23         61                                                                   84
      11:00                           21         22                                                                   43
       Total                       2924       2980                                                                  5904
    Percent                       49.5%      50.5%
  AM Peak                          11:00      11:00                                                                11:00
        Vol.                         258        228                                                                  486
  PM Peak                          17:00      14:00                                                                17:00
        Vol.                         326        271                                                                  588
Grand Total                         2924       2980                                                                 5904
    Percent                       49.5%      50.5%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                             Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                          Site Code: 7
                                                                                                          Station ID: 7
                                                                                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD W/O DILLON DR




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            EB         WB                                                               Total
  12:00 AM                            20         23                                                                43
      01:00                           22         20                                                                42
      02:00                           10         22                                                                32
      03:00                           12         16                                                                28
      04:00                           14         14                                                                28
      05:00                           50         60                                                               110
      06:00                          128        116                                                               244
      07:00                          236        180                                                               416
      08:00                          246        230                                                               476
      09:00                          284        253                                                               537
      10:00                          319        319                                                               638
      11:00                          426        410                                                               836
  12:00 PM                           462        486                                                               948
      01:00                          509        475                                                               984
      02:00                          427        536                                                               963
      03:00                          402        486                                                               888
      04:00                          452        544                                                               996
      05:00                          514        621                                                              1135
      06:00                          371        533                                                               904
      07:00                          299        405                                                               704
      08:00                          208        280                                                               488
      09:00                          134        178                                                               312
      10:00                           78         87                                                               165
      11:00                           29         48                                                                77
       Total                       5652       6342                                                              11994
    Percent                       47.1%      52.9%
  AM Peak                          11:00      11:00                                                             11:00
        Vol.                         426        410                                                               836
  PM Peak                          17:00      17:00                                                             17:00
        Vol.                         514        621                                                              1135
Grand Total                         5652       6342                                                             11994
    Percent                       47.1%      52.9%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                  Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                                Site Code: 8
                                                                                                                Station ID: 8
                                                                                       EAGLERIDGE BLVD E/O N ELIZABETH ST




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            EB         WB                                                                    Total
  12:00 AM                            27         44                                                                     71
      01:00                           30         25                                                                     55
      02:00                           14         20                                                                     34
      03:00                           16         17                                                                     33
      04:00                           42         20                                                                     62
      05:00                          152         58                                                                    210
      06:00                          350        134                                                                    484
      07:00                          520        260                                                                    780
      08:00                          505        318                                                                    823
      09:00                          395        330                                                                    725
      10:00                          460        413                                                                    873
      11:00                          516        492                                                                   1008
  12:00 PM                           581        570                                                                   1151
      01:00                          640        512                                                                   1152
      02:00                          546        525                                                                   1071
      03:00                          557        596                                                                   1153
      04:00                          623        702                                                                   1325
      05:00                          637        811                                                                   1448
      06:00                          484        648                                                                   1132
      07:00                          366        469                                                                    835
      08:00                          275        314                                                                    589
      09:00                          207        212                                                                    419
      10:00                          121        106                                                                    227
      11:00                           50         70                                                                    120
       Total                       8114       7666                                                                   15780
    Percent                       51.4%      48.6%
  AM Peak                          07:00      11:00                                                                  11:00
        Vol.                         520        492                                                                   1008
  PM Peak                          13:00      17:00                                                                  17:00
        Vol.                         640        811                                                                   1448
Grand Total                         8114       7666                                                                  15780
    Percent                       51.4%      48.6%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                   Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                       Site Code: 9
                                                                                                       Station ID: 9
                                                                             SB I-25 ON RAMP S/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            SB
  12:00 AM                            20
      01:00                           18
      02:00                            8
      03:00                           12
      04:00                           19
      05:00                           86
      06:00                          212
      07:00                          322
      08:00                          270
      09:00                          228
      10:00                          232
      11:00                          283
  12:00 PM                           317
      01:00                          337
      02:00                          345
      03:00                          320
      04:00                          363
      05:00                          378
      06:00                          305
      07:00                          212
      08:00                          157
      09:00                          138
      10:00                           94
      11:00                           28
       Total                       4704
  AM Peak                          07:00
        Vol.                         322
  PM Peak                          17:00
        Vol.                         378
Grand Total                         4704

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                    Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                       Site Code: 10
                                                                                                       Station ID: 10
                                                                             SB I-25 OFF RAMP N/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            SB
  12:00 AM                            14
      01:00                           12
      02:00                            6
      03:00                            4
      04:00                            6
      05:00                           26
      06:00                           54
      07:00                          100
      08:00                           96
      09:00                          107
      10:00                          112
      11:00                          116
  12:00 PM                           106
      01:00                          100
      02:00                          108
      03:00                          155
      04:00                          188
      05:00                          206
      06:00                          120
      07:00                           80
      08:00                           44
      09:00                           38
      10:00                           42
      11:00                           13
       Total                       1853
  AM Peak                          11:00
        Vol.                         116
  PM Peak                          17:00
        Vol.                         206
Grand Total                         1853

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                   Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                      Site Code: 11
                                                                                                      Station ID: 11
                                                                             NB I-25 ON RAMP N/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB
  12:00 AM                             4
      01:00                            7
      02:00                           10
      03:00                           10
      04:00                           24
      05:00                           76
      06:00                          120
      07:00                          121
      08:00                          147
      09:00                          114
      10:00                          110
      11:00                          134
  12:00 PM                           126
      01:00                          138
      02:00                          140
      03:00                          130
      04:00                          140
      05:00                          151
      06:00                          110
      07:00                           72
      08:00                           64
      09:00                           36
      10:00                           14
      11:00                           14
       Total                       2012
  AM Peak                          08:00
        Vol.                         147
  PM Peak                          17:00
        Vol.                         151
Grand Total                         2012

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                    Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                       Site Code: 12
                                                                                                       Station ID: 12
                                                                             NB I-25 OFF RAMP S/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB
  12:00 AM                            26
      01:00                           12
      02:00                            8
      03:00                           19
      04:00                           31
      05:00                           84
      06:00                          135
      07:00                          172
      08:00                          232
      09:00                          233
      10:00                          275
      11:00                          368
  12:00 PM                           372
      01:00                          192
      02:00                          314
      03:00                          333
      04:00                          425
      05:00                          463
      06:00                          364
      07:00                          226
      08:00                          140
      09:00                          100
      10:00                           50
      11:00                           36
       Total                       4610
  AM Peak                          11:00
        Vol.                         368
  PM Peak                          17:00
        Vol.                         463
Grand Total                         4610

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                     Site Code: 13
                                                                                                     Station ID: 13
                                                                                       I-25 N/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB         SB                                                          Total
  12:00 AM                            94        150                                                          244
      01:00                           68        104                                                          172
      02:00                          107        110                                                          217
      03:00                          146         82                                                          228
      04:00                          208        170                                                          378
      05:00                          525        432                                                          957
      06:00                          832        802                                                         1634
      07:00                          894      1100                                                          1994
      08:00                          820      1107                                                          1927
      09:00                          766        984                                                         1750
      10:00                          850       1056                                                         1906
      11:00                          914      1016                                                          1930
  12:00 PM                           864        948                                                         1812
      01:00                          970        917                                                         1887
      02:00                         1016        952                                                         1968
      03:00                        1098       1060                                                          2158
      04:00                         1172      1240                                                          2412
      05:00                        1236       1166                                                          2402
      06:00                          826        740                                                         1566
      07:00                          533        530                                                         1063
      08:00                          445        393                                                          838
      09:00                          343        403                                                          746
      10:00                          227        262                                                          489
      11:00                          144        180                                                          324
       Total                      15098      15904                                                         31002
    Percent                       48.7%      51.3%
  AM Peak                          11:00      08:00                                                        07:00
        Vol.                         914      1107                                                          1994
  PM Peak                          17:00      16:00                                                        16:00
        Vol.                        1236      1240                                                          2412
Grand Total                       15098      15904                                                         31002
    Percent                       48.7%      51.3%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                     Site Code: 14
                                                                                                     Station ID: 14
                                                                                       I-25 S/O EAGLERIDGE BLVD




  Start        30-Oct-08
  Time            Thu            NB         SB                                                          Total
  12:00 AM                           117        154                                                          271
      01:00                           74        109                                                          183
      02:00                          106        111                                                          217
      03:00                          157         89                                                          246
      04:00                          217        181                                                          398
      05:00                          538        487                                                         1025
      06:00                          855        950                                                         1805
      07:00                          954      1309                                                          2263
      08:00                          914       1268                                                         2182
      09:00                          894      1094                                                          1988
      10:00                         1025      1164                                                          2189
      11:00                        1159       1171                                                          2330
  12:00 PM                          1099      1171                                                          2270
      01:00                        1113       1166                                                          2279
      02:00                         1178      1201                                                          2379
      03:00                        1288       1237                                                          2525
      04:00                         1442      1429                                                          2871
      05:00                        1533       1351                                                          2884
      06:00                         1069        934                                                         2003
      07:00                          680        669                                                         1349
      08:00                          516        511                                                         1027
      09:00                          403        508                                                          911
      10:00                          260        317                                                          577
      11:00                          164        197                                                          361
       Total                      17755      18778                                                         36533
    Percent                       48.6%      51.4%
  AM Peak                          11:00      07:00                                                        11:00
        Vol.                        1159      1309                                                          2330
  PM Peak                          17:00      16:00                                                        17:00
        Vol.                        1533      1429                                                          2884
Grand Total                       17755      18778                                                         36533
    Percent                       48.6%      51.4%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                 Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                               Site Code: 2
                                                                                                               Station ID: 2
                                                                                       PLATTEVILLE BLVD W/O ELIZABETH ST




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            EB         WB                                                                   Total
  12:00 AM                             4         11                                                                     15
      01:00                            5          5                                                                     10
      02:00                            3          6                                                                      9
      03:00                            7          3                                                                     10
      04:00                           20          4                                                                     24
      05:00                           77         30                                                                    107
      06:00                          134         54                                                                    188
      07:00                          211         40                                                                    251
      08:00                          121         51                                                                    172
      09:00                           90         50                                                                    140
      10:00                           84         53                                                                    137
      11:00                           93         75                                                                    168
  12:00 PM                            86         82                                                                    168
      01:00                           82        102                                                                    184
      02:00                          100         99                                                                    199
      03:00                           84        113                                                                    197
      04:00                          100        163                                                                    263
      05:00                          111        236                                                                    347
      06:00                           88        129                                                                    217
      07:00                           41         89                                                                    130
      08:00                           26         65                                                                     91
      09:00                           24         56                                                                     80
      10:00                           12         33                                                                     45
      11:00                            6         17                                                                     23
       Total                       1609       1566                                                                    3175
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%
  AM Peak                          07:00      11:00                                                                  07:00
        Vol.                         211         75                                                                    251
  PM Peak                          17:00      17:00                                                                  17:00
        Vol.                         111        236                                                                    347
Grand Total                         1609       1566                                                                   3175
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                   Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                                 Site Code: 3
                                                                                                                 Station ID: 3
                                                                                       PLATTEVILLE BLVD E/O N NLIZABETH ST




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            EB         WB                                                                     Total
  12:00 AM                             3         10                                                                      13
      01:00                            4          0                                                                       4
      02:00                            0          2                                                                       2
      03:00                            3          2                                                                       5
      04:00                           15          5                                                                      20
      05:00                           59         24                                                                      83
      06:00                          104         29                                                                     133
      07:00                          144         39                                                                     183
      08:00                           74         36                                                                     110
      09:00                           47         39                                                                      86
      10:00                           46         48                                                                      94
      11:00                           45         48                                                                      93
  12:00 PM                            64         51                                                                     115
      01:00                           50         49                                                                      99
      02:00                           74         65                                                                     139
      03:00                           56         61                                                                     117
      04:00                           64       107                                                                      171
      05:00                           49       160                                                                      209
      06:00                           37         86                                                                     123
      07:00                           23         34                                                                      57
      08:00                           16         32                                                                      48
      09:00                           13         21                                                                      34
      10:00                            8         20                                                                      28
      11:00                            4         12                                                                      16
       Total                       1002        980                                                                     1982
    Percent                       50.6%      49.4%
  AM Peak                          07:00      10:00                                                                    07:00
        Vol.                         144         48                                                                      183
  PM Peak                          14:00      17:00                                                                    17:00
        Vol.                          74       160                                                                       209
Grand Total                         1002        980                                                                     1982
    Percent                       50.6%      49.4%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                 Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                               Site Code: 4
                                                                                                               Station ID: 4
                                                                                       FRONTAGE RD S/O I-25 INTERCHANGE




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB         SB                                                                   Total
  12:00 AM                             6         11                                                                     17
      01:00                            4          0                                                                      4
      02:00                            0          2                                                                      2
      03:00                            4          2                                                                      6
      04:00                           17          2                                                                     19
      05:00                           58         23                                                                     81
      06:00                          104         35                                                                    139
      07:00                          133         53                                                                    186
      08:00                           74         45                                                                    119
      09:00                           54         38                                                                     92
      10:00                           47         47                                                                     94
      11:00                           44         44                                                                     88
  12:00 PM                            70         50                                                                    120
      01:00                           53         58                                                                    111
      02:00                           78         65                                                                    143
      03:00                           51         70                                                                    121
      04:00                           91        103                                                                    194
      05:00                           56        156                                                                    212
      06:00                           36         85                                                                    121
      07:00                           21         35                                                                     56
      08:00                           16         26                                                                     42
      09:00                           16         23                                                                     39
      10:00                            8         20                                                                     28
      11:00                            8         13                                                                     21
       Total                       1049       1006                                                                    2055
    Percent                       51.0%      49.0%
  AM Peak                          07:00      07:00                                                                  07:00
        Vol.                         133         53                                                                    186
  PM Peak                          16:00      17:00                                                                  17:00
        Vol.                          91        156                                                                    212
Grand Total                         1049       1006                                                                   2055
    Percent                       51.0%      49.0%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                         Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                       Site Code: 5
                                                                                                       Station ID: 5
                                                                                       FRONTAGE RD S/O QUARTZ ST




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB         SB                                                            Total
  12:00 AM                             0          0                                                                 0
      01:00                            0          0                                                                 0
      02:00                            0          0                                                                 0
      03:00                            4          3                                                                 7
      04:00                            3          4                                                                 7
      05:00                            4          2                                                                 6
      06:00                           26          2                                                                28
      07:00                           29         19                                                                48
      08:00                           39         16                                                                55
      09:00                           26         27                                                                53
      10:00                           38         23                                                                61
      11:00                           23         23                                                                46
  12:00 PM                            35         34                                                                69
      01:00                           30         24                                                                54
      02:00                           40         33                                                                73
      03:00                           17         23                                                                40
      04:00                           23         32                                                                55
      05:00                           13         37                                                                50
      06:00                            1          3                                                                 4
      07:00                            2          5                                                                 7
      08:00                            0          0                                                                 0
      09:00                            2          1                                                                 3
      10:00                            0          2                                                                 2
      11:00                            0          0                                                                 0
       Total                        355        313                                                                668
    Percent                       53.1%      46.9%
  AM Peak                          08:00      09:00                                                          10:00
        Vol.                          39         27                                                             61
  PM Peak                          14:00      17:00                                                          14:00
        Vol.                          40         37                                                             73
Grand Total                          355        313                                                            668
    Percent                       53.1%      46.9%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc              Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                            Site Code: 9
                                                                                            Station ID: 9
                                                                                       PACE RD E/O I-25




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            EB         WB                                               Total
  12:00 AM                             0          0                                                   0
      01:00                            0          0                                                   0
      02:00                            0          0                                                   0
      03:00                            0          0                                                   0
      04:00                            0          0                                                   0
      05:00                            0          2                                                   2
      06:00                            0          0                                                   0
      07:00                            1          0                                                   1
      08:00                            1          0                                                   1
      09:00                            2          2                                                   4
      10:00                            2          3                                                   5
      11:00                            2          5                                                   7
  12:00 PM                            10          6                                                  16
      01:00                            3          5                                                   8
      02:00                            1          3                                                   4
      03:00                            3          3                                                   6
      04:00                            4          3                                                   7
      05:00                            3          2                                                   5
      06:00                            1          0                                                   1
      07:00                            2          1                                                   3
      08:00                            1          0                                                   1
      09:00                            0          1                                                   1
      10:00                            1          0                                                   1
      11:00                            0          0                                                   0
       Total                          37         36                                                  73
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%
  AM Peak                          09:00      11:00                                              11:00
        Vol.                           2          5                                                  7
  PM Peak                          12:00      12:00                                              12:00
        Vol.                          10          6                                                 16
Grand Total                           37         36                                                 73
    Percent                       50.7%      49.3%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                 Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                    Site Code: 10
                                                                                                    Station ID: 10
                                                                             I-25 SB OFF RAMP N/O FRONTAGE RD




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            SB
  12:00 AM                             6
      01:00                            0
      02:00                            0
      03:00                            1
      04:00                            0
      05:00                            1
      06:00                           10
      07:00                           17
      08:00                           24
      09:00                           16
      10:00                           34
      11:00                           30
  12:00 PM                            18
      01:00                           24
      02:00                           29
      03:00                           27
      04:00                           44
      05:00                           31
      06:00                           29
      07:00                           12
      08:00                           11
      09:00                            4
      10:00                            9
      11:00                            4
       Total                        381
  AM Peak                          10:00
        Vol.                          34
  PM Peak                          16:00
        Vol.                          44
Grand Total                          381

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                                Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                   Site Code: 11
                                                                                                   Station ID: 11
                                                                             I-25 SB ON RAMP S/O FRONTAGE RD




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            SB
  12:00 AM                             4
      01:00                            4
      02:00                            0
      03:00                            4
      04:00                           16
      05:00                           44
      06:00                           80
      07:00                          126
      08:00                           78
      09:00                           68
      10:00                           58
      11:00                           80
  12:00 PM                            83
      01:00                           56
      02:00                           86
      03:00                           66
      04:00                           98
      05:00                           64
      06:00                           34
      07:00                           22
      08:00                           16
      09:00                           16
      10:00                            7
      11:00                            7
       Total                       1117
  AM Peak                          07:00
        Vol.                         126
  PM Peak                          16:00
        Vol.                          98
Grand Total                         1117

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                            Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                               Site Code: 12
                                                                                               Station ID: 12
                                                                             I-25 NB OFF RAMP S/O PACE RD




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB
  12:00 AM                             7
      01:00                            1
      02:00                            2
      03:00                            5
      04:00                            4
      05:00                           26
      06:00                           42
      07:00                           60
      08:00                           61
      09:00                           54
      10:00                           58
      11:00                           54
  12:00 PM                            66
      01:00                           68
      02:00                           80
      03:00                           87
      04:00                           88
      05:00                          132
      06:00                           70
      07:00                           32
      08:00                           30
      09:00                           22
      10:00                           20
      11:00                            9
       Total                       1078
  AM Peak                          08:00
        Vol.                          61
  PM Peak                          17:00
        Vol.                         132
Grand Total                         1078

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                            All Traffic Data Services, Inc                           Page 1
                                                  9660 W 44th Ave
                                              Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                              Site Code: 13
                                                                                              Station ID: 13
                                                                             I-25 NB ON RAMP N/O PACE RD




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB
  12:00 AM                             8
      01:00                            1
      02:00                            0
      03:00                            8
      04:00                            8
      05:00                           24
      06:00                           26
      07:00                           29
      08:00                           18
      09:00                           17
      10:00                           22
      11:00                           26
  12:00 PM                            26
      01:00                           28
      02:00                           27
      03:00                           19
      04:00                           35
      05:00                           17
      06:00                           14
      07:00                           13
      08:00                            6
      09:00                            7
      10:00                            4
      11:00                            1
       Total                        384
  AM Peak                          07:00
        Vol.                          29
  PM Peak                          16:00
        Vol.                          35
Grand Total                          384

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                   Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                 Site Code: 14
                                                                                                 Station ID: 14
                                                                                       I-25 S/O PACE RAMPS




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB         SB                                                     Total
  12:00 AM                           109        154                                                     263
      01:00                           72        105                                                     177
      02:00                          109        111                                                     220
      03:00                          162         76                                                     238
      04:00                          222        172                                                     394
      05:00                          576        405                                                     981
      06:00                          900        820                                                    1720
      07:00                          971      1091                                                     2062
      08:00                          855      1102                                                     1957
      09:00                          816        988                                                    1804
      10:00                          903       1059                                                    1962
      11:00                          790      1040                                                     1830
  12:00 PM                           902        958                                                    1860
      01:00                        1030         925                                                    1955
      02:00                         1039        977                                                    2016
      03:00                        1113       1070                                                     2183
      04:00                         1234      1265                                                     2499
      05:00                        1266       1175                                                     2441
      06:00                          851        777                                                    1628
      07:00                          559        535                                                    1094
      08:00                          456        402                                                     858
      09:00                          363        410                                                     773
      10:00                          242        263                                                     505
      11:00                          149        184                                                     333
       Total                      15689      16064                                                    31753
    Percent                       49.4%      50.6%
  AM Peak                          07:00      08:00                                                   07:00
        Vol.                         971      1102                                                     2062
  PM Peak                          17:00      16:00                                                   16:00
        Vol.                        1266      1265                                                     2499
Grand Total                       15689      16064                                                    31753
    Percent                       49.4%      50.6%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                      All Traffic Data Services, Inc                   Page 1
                                                            9660 W 44th Ave
                                                        Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                          www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                 Site Code: 15
                                                                                                 Station ID: 15
                                                                                       I-25 N/O PACE RAMPS




  Start        28-Oct-08
  Time            Tue            NB         SB                                                     Total
  12:00 AM                            93        158                                                     251
      01:00                           69        102                                                     171
      02:00                          106        112                                                     218
      03:00                          147         74                                                     221
      04:00                          208        158                                                     366
      05:00                          520        366                                                     886
      06:00                          823        758                                                    1581
      07:00                          872        993                                                    1865
      08:00                          768      1059                                                     1827
      09:00                          737        946                                                    1683
      10:00                          814       1046                                                    1860
      11:00                          718        980                                                    1698
  12:00 PM                           819        884                                                    1703
      01:00                          944        884                                                    1828
      02:00                          942        910                                                    1852
      03:00                        1018       1020                                                     2038
      04:00                         1123      1198                                                     2321
      05:00                        1130       1130                                                     2260
      06:00                          776        764                                                    1540
      07:00                          520        520                                                    1040
      08:00                          425        393                                                     818
      09:00                          330        394                                                     724
      10:00                          216        262                                                     478
      11:00                          138        179                                                     317
       Total                      14256      15290                                                    29546
    Percent                       48.3%      51.7%
  AM Peak                          07:00      08:00                                                   07:00
        Vol.                         872      1059                                                     1865
  PM Peak                          17:00      16:00                                                   16:00
        Vol.                        1130      1198                                                     2321
Grand Total                       14256      15290                                                    29546
    Percent                       48.3%      51.7%

       ADT                 Not Calculated
                                                                                      Appendix C
                                                   Highway Capacity Manual Level of Service Worksheets




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                                           103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                                                       May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     978             veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       272             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 562             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 562             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    8.9             pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            978               vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               17                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      126               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         978            17            126         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 272            5             35          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1125           19            141         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1125        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1125         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1125         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1106         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             19           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   8.5              pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence A

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.300
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            961               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               126               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      17                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         961            126           17         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 267            35            5          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1105           141           19         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1105    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1246             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1246             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                11.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.281
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1087            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       302             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 625             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 625             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    9.9             pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1087              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               100               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      270               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1087           100           270         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 330            30            82          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1365           123           333         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1365        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1365         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1365         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1242         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             123          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   13.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.309
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.9      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            987               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               322               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      100               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         987            322           100        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 301            98            30         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1246           397           123        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1246    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1643             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1643             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                17.2   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.328
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1309            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       399             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 826             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 826             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    13.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     954             veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       281             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 581             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 581             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    9.2             pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            954               vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               172               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      147               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         954            172           147         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 281            51            43          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1162           204           175         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1162        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1162         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1162         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  958          4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             204          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   11.1             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.316
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            782               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               121               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      232               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         782            121           232        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 230            36            68         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           952            144           276        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation       0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   952    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual          Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1096            4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1096            4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =               11.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence              B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                       M      = 0.297
                                                      S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,           S      = 58.2     mph
                                                      R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                   S      =   N/A    mph
                                                      0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.2     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     903             veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       323             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 668             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 668             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    10.6            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            903               vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               60                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      29                vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         903            60            29          vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 323            21            10          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1335           86            42          pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1335        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1335         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1335         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1249         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             86           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   13.0             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.306
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            843               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               29                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      60                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         843            29            60         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 301            10            21         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1246           42            86         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1246    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1288             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1288             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                11.1   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.272
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     872             veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       311             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 645             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 645             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    10.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                               1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                           4/1/2010



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           58     356      27        69      158       73        26       53     61     145       54        35
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900     1900       1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0               5.0       5.0     5.0       5.0      5.0             5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95           0.91     0.91
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     0.92           1.00     0.97
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00           0.95     0.98
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3502              1770     3539     1583      1770     3255           1610     3207
Flt Permitted                        0.63    1.00              0.37     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00           0.95     0.98
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1169    3502                696    3539     1583      1770     3255           1610     3207
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.80    0.80    0.80      0.80     0.80     0.80      0.80     0.80   0.80    0.80     0.80      0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)                        72     445      34        86      198       91        32       66     76     181       68        44
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       5       0          0        0      42         0       68      0        0      30         0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  72    474        0        86     198        49        32       74      0      98     165          0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm       Split                   Split
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                  2       2                6      6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)               26.6     26.6              37.3    37.3     37.3       7.0       7.0            9.7     9.7
Effective Green, g (s)              26.6     26.6              37.3    37.3     37.3       7.0       7.0            9.7     9.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.39     0.39              0.54    0.54     0.54      0.10      0.10           0.14    0.14
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                5.0    5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0            5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0            3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   451    1350                465    1913      856      180       330            226      451
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.14             c0.02    0.06               0.02     c0.02          c0.06    0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.06                       0.08             0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.16     0.35              0.18    0.10     0.06      0.18      0.22           0.43    0.37
Uniform Delay, d1                   13.9     15.1                8.0    7.7      7.5      28.4      28.5           27.1    26.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8      0.7               0.2     0.1      0.1       0.5       0.3            1.3     0.5
Delay (s)                           14.6     15.8               8.2     7.8      7.6      28.8      28.8           28.5    27.4
Level of Service                       B        B                  A      A        A         C         C              C       C
Approach Delay (s)                           15.6                       7.9                         28.8                   27.7
Approach LOS                                    B                         A                            C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             17.7         HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.33
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             69.0         Sum of lost time (s)                    20.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   37.7%          ICU Level of Service                       A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                         Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    244      299        30    243        0         0      0      0      18        3      69
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681     1710    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.52    1.00                                     0.95     0.97    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1869    3539                                    1681     1710    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.82   0.82     0.82     0.82    0.82     0.82      0.82   0.82   0.82    0.82    0.82     0.82
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    298      365        37    296        0         0      0      0      22        4      84
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     105         0       0       0         0      0      0       0        0      78
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    298     260         37    296        0         0      0      0      13       13       6
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                                6
Permitted Phases                                        4        8                                                6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      56.8     56.8     64.2     64.2                                     5.5     5.5      5.5
Effective Green, g (s)                      56.8     56.8     64.2    64.2                                      5.5     5.5     5.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.71     0.71     0.81     0.81                                    0.07    0.07     0.07
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0                                     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         3624     1128     1553    2851                                      116     118     109
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.06              0.00    c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                                     c0.16     0.02                                            c0.01    0.01     0.00
v/c Ratio                                  0.08     0.23     0.02     0.10                                    0.11    0.11     0.05
Uniform Delay, d1                           3.5      3.9       1.7     1.6                                    34.8    34.8     34.7
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.0      0.5       0.0     0.1                                     0.4     0.4      0.2
Delay (s)                                   3.5      4.4       1.7     1.7                                    35.2    35.2     34.9
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                       D       D        C
Approach Delay (s)                          4.0                        1.7                      0.0                   35.0
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             6.4        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.22
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            79.7        Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  37.7%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        67      195       0       0     152       60       127        5      89       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                      5.0     5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1692    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.56     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                2022     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1692    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85      0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85    0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                     79      229       0       0     179       71       149        6     105       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0      28          0       0       94      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               79     229        0       0    179        43        77       78      11       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            50.9      50.9                   41.1     41.1        7.2     7.2      7.2
Effective Green, g (s)           50.9      50.9                   41.1     41.1        7.2     7.2      7.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.75     0.75                    0.60    0.60       0.11    0.11     0.11
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               1611     2645                    3867      955       178     179      167
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.06                    0.03
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.03                                     0.03       0.05    0.05     0.01
v/c Ratio                         0.05     0.09                   0.05     0.04       0.43    0.44     0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                  2.4      2.3                    5.5      5.5       28.5    28.5     27.4
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.0      0.1                    0.0      0.1        1.7     1.7      0.2
Delay (s)                          2.4      2.4                    5.5      5.6       30.2    30.2     27.6
Level of Service                     A        A                      A        A          C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          2.4                    5.5                        29.2                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           11.9      HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.13
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           68.1      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 37.7%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                               4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                             4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        30    155      170       9     13       21
Sign Control                        Free                    Stop   Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80   0.80     0.80
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38    194     212       11     16       26
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                 802
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0              83     75     269        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0              83     75     269        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1              7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2             3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       98              75     99      97       98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623             849    797     623     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    EB 2    NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                          38     194     212       6      6       16        26
Volume Left                           38       0     212       0      0         0        0
Volume Right                           0     194       0       0      0         0       26
cSH                                 1623    1700     849     797    797      623      1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.02    0.11    0.25    0.01   0.01     0.03      0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2       0      25       1      1         2        2
Control Delay (s)                    7.3     0.0    10.6     9.6    9.6     10.9       8.4
Lane LOS                               A               B       A      A         B        A
Approach Delay (s)                   1.2            10.6                      9.4
Approach LOS                                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         6.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  26.1%       ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                         5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                          4/23/2009



Movement                            WBL     WBR     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        54     18        7     126      13        5
Sign Control                        Free            Stop                     Stop
Grade                                0%              0%                       0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86     0.86
Hourly flow rate (vph)                63      21       8    147       15        6
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0             147       0     287      136
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0             147       0     287      136
tC, single (s)                       4.1              6.5    6.2      7.1      6.5
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2             4.0     3.3     3.5      4.0
p0 queue free %                       96              99      86      97       99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623             716    1085     554      726
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                       84        155      21
Volume Left                        63          0      15
Volume Right                       21        147       0
cSH                             1623        1056     593
Volume to Capacity               0.04       0.15    0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)              3         13       3
Control Delay (s)                 5.6        9.0    11.3
Lane LOS                            A          A       B
Approach Delay (s)                5.6        9.0    11.3
Approach LOS                                   A       B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         8.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  22.4%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                             Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                            6: Platteville Blvd & SB off Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                 4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      21      119       2      53        0        0       0     0      1        2      10
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90    0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90      0.90   0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90     0.90
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      23     132        2      59        0         0      0      0      1       2       11
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                59                      156                       165    153     89    153      219      59
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   59                       156                       165    153     89    153      219      59
tC, single (s)                       4.1                       4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                      100                       100    100    100    100      100      99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1545                     1425                       788    738    968    813      678    1007
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                         156       61      14
Volume Left                             0       2       1
Volume Right                         132        0      11
cSH                                 1700    1425      921
Volume to Capacity                  0.09     0.00    0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0       0       1
Control Delay (s)                     0.0     0.3     9.0
Lane LOS                                        A       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      0.3     9.0
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          0.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   18.4%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                            7: Platteville Blvd & NB on Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        21       1        0       0       1        1       56       0      1      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.70    0.70     0.70    0.70    0.70     0.70      0.70   0.70   0.70    0.70    0.70     0.70
Hourly flow rate (vph)                30       1        0       0       1        1        80      0      1       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 3                        1                        64     64       1     65       64       2
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     3                        1                        64     64       1     65      64         2
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                      100                        91    100     100    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1619                     1621                       918    811    1083    914      812    1082
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          31        3      81
Volume Left                           30        0      80
Volume Right                           0        1       1
cSH                                 1619    1700      920
Volume to Capacity                  0.02     0.00    0.09
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1        0       7
Control Delay (s)                    6.9      0.0     9.3
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.9      0.0     9.3
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          8.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   17.9%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                         8: Dillion Dr & N Elizabeth St
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                      4/23/2009



Movement                            EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       118      71        9      21     16        8
Sign Control                        Free                     Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91   0.91     0.91
Hourly flow rate (vph)               130       78      10      23     18        9
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                208            212      169
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                    208            212      169
tC, single (s)                                         4.1            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                 2.2            3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                        99             98       99
cM capacity (veh/h)                                  1363            771      875
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                         208       33      26
Volume Left                             0      10      18
Volume Right                           78       0       9
cSH                                 1700    1363      803
Volume to Capacity                  0.12     0.01    0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0       1       3
Control Delay (s)                     0.0     2.3     9.6
Lane LOS                                        A       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      2.3     9.6
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          1.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   20.5%       ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                         Page 4
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1112            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       339             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 702             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 702             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1112              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               31                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      44                vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1112           31            44          vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 339            9             13          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1404           38            54          pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1404        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1404         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1404         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1366         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             38           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   10.9             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.301
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1081              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               98                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      44                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1081           98            44         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 330            30            13         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1364           120           54         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1364    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1484             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1484             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                13.2   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.284
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1179            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       359             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 744             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 744             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1179              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               206               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      378               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1179           206           378         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 320            56            103         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1326           226           415         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1326        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1326         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1326         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1100         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             226          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   13.0             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.318
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            973               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               378               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      206               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         973            378           206        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 264            103           56         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1095           415           226        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1095    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1510             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1510             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                16.1   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.325
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1351            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       367             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 760             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 760             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    12.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1533            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       421             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 872             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 872             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    13.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1533              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               463               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      151               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1533           463           151         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 421            127           41          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1744           514           168         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1744        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1744         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1744         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1230         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             514          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   16.1             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.344
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1070              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               151               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      206               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1070           151           206        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 294            41            57         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1217           168           229        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1217    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1385             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1385             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                13.7   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.301
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.1     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1221            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       372             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 771             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 771             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    12.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1221              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               132               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      35                vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1221           132           35          vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 372            40            11          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1541           163           43          pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1541        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1541         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1541         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1378         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             163          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.8             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.313
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.8      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1089              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               15                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      188               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1089           15            188        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 332            5             57         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1375           18            230        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1375    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1393             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1393             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                11.9   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.274
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Existing Conditions Year 2008
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2008
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1104            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       337             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 697             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 697             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                               1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                             4/1/2010



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT      NBR     SBL     SBT         SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           70     329      59       118      397      241        52      141     120     215      110         52
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900   1900     1900        1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0             5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95            0.91     0.91
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     0.93            1.00     0.97
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00            0.95     0.98
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3459              1770     3539     1583      1770     3295            1610     3227
Flt Permitted                        0.50    1.00              0.39     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00            0.95     0.98
Satd. Flow (perm)                     933   3459                735    3539     1583      1770     3295            1610     3227
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92       0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        76     358      64       128      432      262        57      153     130     234      120         57
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      14       0          0        0    128          0     114        0        0      26          0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  76    408        0      128      432      134         57     169        0    138      247           0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm       Split                    Split
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                  2        2                6       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.6     25.6              37.4     37.4     37.4      9.0       9.0            11.9    11.9
Effective Green, g (s)              25.6     25.6              37.4     37.4     37.4      9.0       9.0            11.9    11.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.35     0.35              0.51     0.51     0.51     0.12      0.12            0.16    0.16
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0             3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   326    1208                471    1806       808      217      405              261     524
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.12              0.03    c0.12              0.03     c0.05           c0.09    0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.08                       0.11              0.08
v/c Ratio                           0.23     0.34              0.27     0.24     0.17     0.26      0.42            0.53    0.47
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.9     17.6                9.8    10.0      9.6     29.1      29.7            28.1    27.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00            1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.7      0.8               0.3      0.3      0.4      0.6       0.7             1.9     0.7
Delay (s)                           18.6     18.4              10.1     10.3     10.0     29.8      30.4            30.1    28.5
Level of Service                       B        B                  B       B        B        C         C               C       C
Approach Delay (s)                           18.4                       10.2                        30.3                    29.0
Approach LOS                                    B                          B                           C                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             19.2         HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.39
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             73.3         Sum of lost time (s)                     20.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   49.2%          ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    406      247      124     674        0         0      0      0      72        3     107
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681     1691    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.44    1.00                                     0.95     0.96    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1580    3539                                    1681     1691    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    441      268      135     733        0         0      0      0      78        3     116
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     103         0       0       0         0      0      0       0        0     106
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    441     165       135     733        0         0      0      0      41       40      10
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                                6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                                6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      43.8     43.8     54.9     54.9                                     6.2     6.2      6.2
Effective Green, g (s)                      43.8    43.8      54.9    54.9                                      6.2     6.2     6.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.62     0.62     0.77     0.77                                    0.09    0.09     0.09
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0                                     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         3133      975     1379    2733                                      147     147     138
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.09              0.01    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.10     0.07                                            c0.02    0.02     0.01
v/c Ratio                                  0.14     0.17     0.10     0.27                                    0.28    0.27     0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                           5.7      5.9       2.1     2.3                                    30.4    30.3     29.8
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                    1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.1      0.4       0.0     0.2                                     1.0     1.0      0.2
Delay (s)                                   5.8      6.2       2.1     2.6                                    31.4    31.3     30.0
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                       C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          6.0                        2.5                      0.0                   30.6
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             7.0        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.27
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            71.1        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  34.7%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        58      419       0       0     515       87       247        2     145       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                      5.0     5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1687    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.37     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1338     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1687    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                     64      460       0       0     566       96       271        2     159       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0      40          0       0     134       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               64     460        0       0    566        56      135      138       25       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8          2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            50.3      50.3                   41.7     41.7       11.1    11.1     11.1
Effective Green, g (s)           50.3      50.3                   41.7     41.7       11.1    11.1     11.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.70     0.70                    0.58    0.58       0.16    0.16     0.16
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               1048     2493                    3742      925        261     262      246
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.13                    0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.04                                     0.04       0.08    0.08     0.02
v/c Ratio                         0.06     0.18                   0.15     0.06       0.52    0.53     0.10
Uniform Delay, d1                  3.4      3.6                    6.8      6.4       27.7    27.7     25.9
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.0      0.2                    0.1      0.1        1.7     1.9      0.2
Delay (s)                          3.4      3.7                    6.9      6.5       29.4    29.6     26.0
Level of Service                     A        A                      A        A          C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          3.7                    6.8                        28.2                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           11.5      HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.25
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           71.4      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 34.7%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                              4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        92     319      506      52     41       69
Sign Control                        Free                     Stop   Stop
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.91    0.91     0.91    0.91   0.91     0.91
Hourly flow rate (vph)               101    351      556       57     45       76
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                 802
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0              225    202     553        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0              225    202     553        0
tC, single (s)                       4.1               7.1    6.5     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2              3.5    4.0     4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                       94                 6    91      89       93
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623              594    651     414     1085
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    EB 2     NB 1    NB 2   NB 3     SB 1      SB 2
Volume Total                         101     351      556      29     29       45        76
Volume Left                          101        0     556       0      0        0         0
Volume Right                            0    351        0       0      0        0        76
cSH                                 1623    1700      594     651    651      414      1085
Volume to Capacity                  0.06    0.21     0.94    0.04   0.04     0.11      0.07
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  5       0     307       3      3        9         6
Control Delay (s)                     7.4     0.0    49.2    10.8   10.8     14.8       8.6
Lane LOS                                A               E       B      B        B         A
Approach Delay (s)                    1.6            45.7                    10.9
Approach LOS                                            E                       B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         25.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   46.5%       ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                 Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                         5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                          4/23/2009



Movement                            WBL     WBR     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       128     16        4      57      27       14
Sign Control                        Free            Stop                     Stop
Grade                                0%              0%                       0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82     0.82
Hourly flow rate (vph)               156      20       5      70      33       17
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                 0             332       0     394      322
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                     0             332       0     394      322
tC, single (s)                       4.1              6.5    6.2      7.1      6.5
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2             4.0     3.3     3.5      4.0
p0 queue free %                       90              99      94      93       97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1623             531    1085     487      538
Direction, Lane #               WB 1        NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                      176         74      50
Volume Left                       156          0      33
Volume Right                        20        70       0
cSH                             1623        1016     503
Volume to Capacity               0.10       0.07    0.10
Queue Length 95th (ft)               8         6       8
Control Delay (s)                  6.7       8.8    12.9
Lane LOS                             A         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                 6.7       8.8    12.9
Approach LOS                                   A       B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         8.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  23.6%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                             Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                            6: Platteville Blvd & SB off Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      13        72      8     117        0        0       0      0      1        0      29
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.82    0.82      0.82    0.82   0.82     0.82      0.82   0.82   0.82    0.82    0.82     0.82
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      16        88      10    143        0         0      0      0       1       0       35
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               143                      104                       257    222      60    222      266     143
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   143                      104                       257    222     60     222      266     143
tC, single (s)                        4.1                      4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                        99                      100    100     100    100      100      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1440                      1488                      665    672    1006    730      636     905
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         104      152       37
Volume Left                             0       10       1
Volume Right                           88        0      35
cSH                                 1700    1488       898
Volume to Capacity                  0.06     0.01     0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        0       3
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      0.5     9.2
Lane LOS                                         A       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       0.5     9.2
Approach LOS                                             A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           1.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    22.7%       ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                            7: Platteville Blvd & NB on Ramp
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                                  4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        14       3        0       0      11        0      112       4      6      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.82    0.82     0.82    0.82    0.82     0.82      0.82   0.82   0.82    0.82    0.82     0.82
Hourly flow rate (vph)                17       4        0       0      13        0      137       5      7       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                13                        4                        51     51       4     61       51      13
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   13                         4                        51     51       4     61      51       13
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       99                      100                        85     99      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1605                     1618                       940    831    1080    916      831    1067
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          21       13     149
Volume Left                           17        0     137
Volume Right                           0        0       7
cSH                                 1605    1700      942
Volume to Capacity                  0.01     0.01    0.16
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1        0      14
Control Delay (s)                    6.0      0.0     9.5
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.0      0.0     9.5
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          8.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   21.0%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                          8: Dillion Dr & N Elizabeth St
Existing Traffic Volumes                                                                                       4/23/2009



Movement                            EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        42       58       30      99     72       30
Sign Control                        Free                      Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.79     0.79     0.79    0.79   0.79     0.79
Hourly flow rate (vph)                53       73       38     125     91       38
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                 127            291       90
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                     127            291      90
tC, single (s)                                          4.1            6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                  2.2            3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                         97             87       96
cM capacity (veh/h)                                   1460            681      968
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      NB 1
Volume Total                         127      163      129
Volume Left                             0       38      91
Volume Right                           73        0      38
cSH                                 1700    1460       746
Volume to Capacity                  0.07     0.03     0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        2      16
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      1.9    10.8
Lane LOS                                         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       1.9    10.8
Approach LOS                                             B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           4.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    26.0%       ICU Level of Service            A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                          Page 4
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1465            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       407             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 842             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 842             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    13.4            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1465              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               45                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      210               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1465           45            210         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 407            13            58          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1685           50            235         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________

                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1685        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD

_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1685         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1685         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1635         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             50           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   13.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B
_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.303
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1440              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               210               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      25                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1440           210           25         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 400            58            7          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1656           235           28         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________

                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1656    pc/h
                   12     F     FM

_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1891             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1891             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                16.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.293
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.3     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.3     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1650            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       503             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1041            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1041            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    16.5            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1650              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               180               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      430               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1650           180           430         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 501            55            131         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2073           222           530         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2073        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2073         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2073         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1851         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             222          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   19.4             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.318
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1470              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               430               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      180               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1470           430           180        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 448            131           55         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1855           530           222        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1855    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2385             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2385             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                22.9   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.350
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.0     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1900            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       579             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1199            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1199            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    19.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1230            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       362             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 749             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 749             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.9            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1230              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               300               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      135               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1230           300           135         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 362            88            40          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1498           356           160         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1498        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1498         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1498         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1142         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             356          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.0             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.330
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            930               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               135               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      300               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         930            135           300        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 274            40            88         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1132           160           356        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1132    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1292             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1292             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                13.0   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.299
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.1     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1065            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       313             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 648             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 648             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    10.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1055              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               100               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      45                vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1055           100           45          vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 377            36            16          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1560           144           65          pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L =                (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                   EQ
                  P =     1.000      Using Equation 0
                   FD
                  v = v + (v - v ) P = 1560       pc/h
                   12   R     F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                           Actual          Maximum              LOS F?
     v    = v              1560            4700                 No
      Fi     F
     v                     1560            4400                 No
      12
     v    = v - v          1416            4700                 No
      FO     F    R
     v                     144             2100                 No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   15.0       pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                   D      = 0.311
                                                  S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,       S      = 57.8     mph
                                                  R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,               S      =   N/A    mph
                                                  0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                            Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            955               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               45                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      100               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         955            45            100        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 341            16            36         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1412           65            144        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1412    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1477             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1477             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                12.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.275
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) AM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1000            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       357             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 739             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 739             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.7            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                          12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           95     550      45       105      275      115         40       85     90     225       85      60
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900    1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0       4.0      5.0             4.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95           0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.92           1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3499              1770     3539     1583       1770     3265           3433     1747
Flt Permitted                        0.57    1.00              0.28     1.00     1.00       0.66     1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1060    3499                522    3539     1583       1225     3265           3433     1747
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       103     598      49       114      299      125         43       92     98     245       92      65
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       9       0          0        0      63           0      84      0        0      46       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                103     638        0      114      299        62         43     106       0    245      111        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                     Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5      2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               19.1     19.1              27.0    27.0      27.0        9.2     7.7             5.4     11.6
Effective Green, g (s)              19.1     19.1              27.0    27.0      27.0        9.2     7.7             5.4     11.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.35     0.35              0.50    0.50      0.50       0.17    0.14            0.10     0.21
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0    5.0             4.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   374    1235                350    1766       790        223    465             343       375
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.18             c0.02    0.08                 0.01    0.03           c0.07    c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                       0.14              0.04       0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.28     0.52              0.33    0.17      0.08       0.19    0.23            0.71     0.30
Uniform Delay, d1                   12.5     13.8                7.8    7.4       7.1       19.1    20.6            23.6     17.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00            1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      1.5               0.5     0.2       0.2        0.4     0.3             6.9      0.4
Delay (s)                           14.4     15.4                8.4    7.6       7.3       19.5    20.8            30.5     18.3
Level of Service                       B        B                  A      A         A           B      C               C        B
Approach Delay (s)                           15.3                       7.7                         20.6                     25.7
Approach LOS                                    B                         A                            C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             16.0         HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             54.1         Sum of lost time (s)                     18.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   49.1%          ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                  12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    425      420        60    415        0         0      0      0      40       0     105
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.41    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1482    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    462      457        65    451        0         0      0      0      43       0     114
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     195         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0     102
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    462     262         65    451        0         0      0      0      21      22      12
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                               6              6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      30.8     30.8     38.3     38.3                                    5.5     5.5     5.5
Effective Green, g (s)                      30.8    30.8      38.3    38.3                                     5.5     5.5    5.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.57     0.57     0.71     0.71                                   0.10    0.10    0.10
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2911      906     1146    2519                                     172     172    162
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.09              0.00    c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                     c0.17     0.04                                            0.01    0.01    0.01
v/c Ratio                                  0.16     0.29     0.06     0.18                                   0.12    0.13    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                           5.4      5.9       2.5     2.6                                   22.0    22.0    21.8
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.1      0.8       0.0     0.2                                    0.3     0.3     0.2
Delay (s)                                   5.5      6.7       2.5     2.7                                   22.3    22.3    22.0
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                      C       C       C
Approach Delay (s)                          6.1                        2.7                      0.0                  22.1
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             6.6        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.27
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            53.8        Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  45.2%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                    12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        95      380       0       0     305      100       185        0     160       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                      5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.44     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1585     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    103      413       0       0     332      109       201        0     174       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0       59         0       0     149       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             103      413        0       0    332        50      100      101       25       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                          8        2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            33.0      33.0                   23.2      23.2       7.3     7.3      7.3
Effective Green, g (s)           33.0      33.0                   23.2      23.2       7.3     7.3      7.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.66     0.66                    0.46     0.46      0.15    0.15     0.15
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0       5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               1216     2322                    2956       730      244     244      230
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.12                    0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.05                                      0.03      0.06    0.06     0.02
v/c Ratio                         0.08     0.18                   0.11      0.07      0.41    0.41     0.11
Uniform Delay, d1                  3.3      3.4                    7.7       7.5      19.5    19.6     18.7
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.0      0.2                    0.1       0.2       1.1     1.1      0.2
Delay (s)                          3.4      3.5                    7.8       7.7      20.7    20.7     18.9
Level of Service                     A        A                      A         A         C       C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          3.5                    7.8                        19.8                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            9.5      HCM Level of Service                        A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.22
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           50.3      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 45.2%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         160     350      260       25        35     100
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00     0.97    1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       174     380      283      27        38      109
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0    234         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                174     146      283       27        38     109
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            18.0       18.0      8.4    18.9        6.5    46.9
Effective Green, g (s)           18.0       18.0      8.4    18.9        6.5    46.9
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.38       0.38     0.18    0.40       0.14    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0        5.0     4.0      5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                679        608     615      751       258     1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.10               c0.08    0.01      c0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.09                                0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.26    0.24     0.46    0.04       0.15    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                    9.9     9.8     17.2     8.5       17.8     0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9     0.9      0.5     0.0        0.3     0.1
Delay (s)                           10.8    10.7     17.8     8.5       18.0     0.1
Level of Service                       B       B        B       A          B       A
Approach Delay (s)                  10.8                     17.0        4.7
Approach LOS                           B                        B          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             11.8          HCM Level of Service            B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.29
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             46.9       Sum of lost time (s)             14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   33.3%        ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                         5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                            12/15/2009



Movement                            EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        35      5       90      35      10      215
Sign Control                        Free                    Free    Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38       5      98      38      11     234
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                43             274       41
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                    43             274      41
tC, single (s)                                        4.1             6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                2.2             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                       94              98       77
cM capacity (veh/h)                                 1565             670     1030
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1    WB 2     NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                          43      98      38      11     234
Volume Left                            0      98       0      11       0
Volume Right                           5       0       0        0    234
cSH                                 1700   1565    1700      670    1030
Volume to Capacity                  0.03    0.06    0.02    0.02    0.23
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       5       0        1     22
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     7.5     0.0    10.5     9.5
Lane LOS                                       A                B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     5.4              9.6
Approach LOS                                                    A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         7.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  23.3%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                             Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                        6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                   12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      30       205       5      90        0        0       0     0      5        0      20
Sign Control                                Free                      Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                        0%                        0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      33      223        5      98        0         0      0      0      5       0      22
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                98                       255                       274    253    144    253      364      98
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   98                        255                       274    253    144    253      364      98
tC, single (s)                       4.1                        4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                       2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                       100                       100    100    100     99      100      98
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1495                      1310                       660    648    903    698      561     958
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         255      103       27
Volume Left                             0        5       5
Volume Right                         223         0      22
cSH                                 1700    1310       892
Volume to Capacity                  0.15     0.00     0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        0       2
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      0.4     9.2
Lane LOS                                         A       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       0.4     9.2
Approach LOS                                             A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           0.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    24.2%        ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                   12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        35       5        0       0       5        5       90       0      5      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38       5        0       0       5        5        98      0      5       0       0       0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                11                        5                        90     92       5     95       90       8
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   11                         5                        90     92       5     95      90         8
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                      100                        89    100      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1608                     1616                       879    779    1078    867      781    1074
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          43       11     103
Volume Left                           38        0      98
Volume Right                           0        5       5
cSH                                 1608    1700      888
Volume to Capacity                  0.02     0.01    0.12
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2        0      10
Control Delay (s)                    6.4      0.0     9.6
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.4      0.0     9.6
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   20.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                         8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                          12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL       WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                          10      150     140      15         40      35          35     135      15     105      255      10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900      1900    1900        1900    1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0         4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00        0.97    0.95            0.97     0.95
Frt                                          1.00    0.85               1.00    0.85        1.00    0.99            1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                                1.00    1.00               0.99    1.00        0.95    1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1857    1583               1838    1583        3433    3487            3433     3519
Flt Permitted                                0.98    1.00               0.88    1.00        0.95    1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1823    1583               1640    1583        3433    3487            3433     3519
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92        0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        11     163     152       16        43      38          38     147      16     114      277      11
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0    124         0         0      31           0        9      0        0        3      0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    174       28        0        59       7          38    154        0    114      285        0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm              Perm         Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                               4                           8                   5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                  8
Actuated Green, G (s)                        10.0    10.0               10.0    10.0        1.9     24.0             5.5     27.6
Effective Green, g (s)                       10.0    10.0               10.0    10.0        1.9     24.0             5.5     27.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                           0.19    0.19               0.19    0.19       0.04     0.45            0.10     0.52
Clearance Time (s)                            5.0     5.0                5.0     5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                         3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                            341     296               307     296        122     1564             353     1815
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                             0.01     0.04           c0.03    c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.10    0.02               0.04    0.00
v/c Ratio                                    0.51    0.10               0.19    0.02       0.31    0.10             0.32     0.16
Uniform Delay, d1                            19.5    18.0               18.3    17.8       25.2     8.5             22.3      6.8
Progression Factor                           1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                         1.3     0.1                0.3     0.0        1.5     0.1              0.5      0.2
Delay (s)                                    20.8    18.1               18.7    17.8       26.6     8.6             22.8      7.0
Level of Service                                C       B                  B       B          C       A                C        A
Approach Delay (s)                           19.6                       18.3                       12.0                      11.5
Approach LOS                                    B                          B                          B                         B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             14.8          HCM Level of Service                      B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.27
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             53.5       Sum of lost time (s)                       14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   37.6%        ICU Level of Service                          A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 8
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1235            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       377             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 779             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 779             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    12.4            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1235              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               55                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      140               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1235           55            140         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 377            17            43          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1559           67            172         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________

                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1559        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD

_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1559         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1559         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1492         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             67           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   12.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B
_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.304
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1180              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________

Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               140               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________
Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      55                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft
____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________
Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1180           140           55         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 360            43            17         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1489           172           67         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1489    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1661             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1661             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                14.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.288
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.4     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1320            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       359             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 742             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 742             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1325              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               225               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      495               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1325           225           495         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 360            61            135         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1491           247           543         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1491        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1491         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1491         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1244         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             247          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.4             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.320
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1100              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               495               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      225               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1100           495           225        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 299            135           61         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1237           543           247        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1237    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1780             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1780             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                18.2   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.331
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.4     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1595            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       433             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 897             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 897             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1880            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       516             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1069            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1069            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    17.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Yera 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1880              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________

Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               550               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________
Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      215               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft
____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________
Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1880           550           215         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 516            151           59          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2138           610           239         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2138        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2138         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2138         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1528         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             610          2100                  No
      R

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   19.5             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.353
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.9      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1330              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               215               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      550               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1330           215           550        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 365            59            151        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1513           239           610        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1513    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1752             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1752             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                16.5   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.307
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 20017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1545            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       424             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 879             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 879             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1545              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               195               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      30                vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1545           195           30          vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 471            59            9           v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1950           239           37          pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1950        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1950         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1950         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1711         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             239          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   18.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.320
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1350              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________

Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               30                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________
Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      195               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft
____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________
Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1350           30            195        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 412            9             59         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1704           37            239        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________

                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1704    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1741             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1741             4600                 No
      R12
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                14.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.280
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.6     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1380            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       421             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 871             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 871             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    13.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                           12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         100     430       80      230      525      190          70     175      145    270      140       75
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0       4.0       5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.93            1.00     0.95
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3456              1770     3539     1583       1770     3298            3433     1765
Flt Permitted                        0.44    1.00              0.29     1.00     1.00       0.61     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     815   3456                542    3539     1583       1142     3298            3433     1765
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       109     467      87       250      571      207         76      190     158     293      152      82
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      25       0          0        0    116            0    127        0        0      32       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                109     529        0      250      571        91         76     221        0    293      202        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               16.1    16.1               25.1    25.1      25.1       14.0    11.1              7.0     15.2
Effective Green, g (s)              16.1    16.1               25.1    25.1      25.1       14.0    11.1              7.0     15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.28    0.28               0.44    0.44      0.44       0.24    0.19             0.12     0.27
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0             4.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   229     973                345    1553       695        311     640             420       469
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.15              c0.06    0.16                 0.01    0.07            c0.09    c0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.13                      c0.25              0.06       0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.48    0.54               0.72    0.37      0.13       0.24    0.34             0.70     0.43
Uniform Delay, d1                   17.1    17.4               11.4    10.7       9.6       17.0    19.9             24.1     17.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.9     2.2                7.4     0.7       0.4        0.4     0.3              5.0      0.6
Delay (s)                           24.0    19.6               18.8    11.4       9.9       17.5    20.2             29.1     18.0
Level of Service                       C       B                   B      B         A           B      C                C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          20.3                       12.9                         19.7                      24.2
Approach LOS                                   C                          B                            B                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             18.1         HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.57
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             57.2         Sum of lost time (s)                       8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   59.4%          ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                  12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    550      295      165     840        0         0      0      0      95       0     125
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.35    1.00                                     0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1248    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    598      321      179     913        0         0      0      0     103       0     136
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     160         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0      78
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    598     161       179     913        0         0      0      0      51      52      58
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                               6               6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      24.7     24.7     32.9     32.9                                    6.3     6.3      6.3
Effective Green, g (s)                      24.7    24.7      32.9    32.9                                     6.3     6.3     6.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.50     0.50     0.67     0.67                                   0.13    0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2553      795      977    2367                                     215     215     203
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.12              0.01    c0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.10     0.11                                            0.03    0.03    c0.04
v/c Ratio                                  0.23     0.20     0.18     0.39                                   0.24    0.24     0.29
Uniform Delay, d1                           6.9      6.8       3.1     3.6                                   19.3    19.3     19.4
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.2      0.6       0.1     0.5                                    0.6     0.6      0.8
Delay (s)                                   7.1      7.4       3.2     4.1                                   19.9    19.9     20.2
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                      B       B        C
Approach Delay (s)                          7.2                        4.0                      0.0                  20.1
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             7.0        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.37
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            49.2        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  39.3%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                    12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        60      595       0       0     755      120       295        0     205       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                      5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.26     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  933    3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     65      647       0       0     821      130       321        0     223       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0       71         0       0     131       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               65     647        0       0    821        59      160      161       92       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                          8         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            30.4      30.4                   23.0      23.0      10.3    10.3     10.3
Effective Green, g (s)           30.4      30.4                   23.0      23.0      10.3    10.3     10.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.60      0.60                    0.45     0.45      0.20    0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0       5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                678     2122                    2907       718       342     342      322
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.18                    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.05                                      0.04      0.10    0.10     0.06
v/c Ratio                         0.10     0.30                   0.28      0.08      0.47    0.47     0.28
Uniform Delay, d1                  4.4      5.0                    8.7       7.9      17.8    17.8     17.1
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      0.4                    0.2       0.2       1.0     1.0      0.5
Delay (s)                          4.5      5.3                    8.9       8.1      18.8    18.8     17.6
Level of Service                     A        A                      A         A         B       B        B
Approach Delay (s)                          5.3                    8.8                        18.3                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           10.0      HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.35
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           50.7      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 39.3%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         250     450      660     100         75     180
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00     0.97    1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       272     489      717     109        82      196
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0    337         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                272     152      717     109         82     196
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            16.0       16.0     13.7    25.4        7.7    51.4
Effective Green, g (s)           16.0       16.0     13.7    25.4        7.7    51.4
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.31       0.31     0.27    0.49       0.15    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0        5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                551        493      915     921       279     1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.15               c0.21    0.06      c0.04
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.10                                0.12
v/c Ratio                           0.49    0.31     0.78    0.12       0.29    0.12
Uniform Delay, d1                   14.4    13.5     17.5     7.0       19.4     0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                3.1     1.6      4.4     0.1        0.6     0.2
Delay (s)                           17.5    15.1     21.9     7.0       20.0     0.2
Level of Service                       B       B        C       A          C       A
Approach Delay (s)                  16.0                     20.0        6.0
Approach LOS                           B                        B          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             16.3          HCM Level of Service            B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             51.4       Sum of lost time (s)             14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   47.7%        ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                         5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                            12/15/2009



Movement                            EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        45      5      170      45       5       95
Sign Control                        Free                    Free    Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                49       5    185       49       5     103
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                54             470       52
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                    54             470      52
tC, single (s)                                        4.1             6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                2.2             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                       88              99       90
cM capacity (veh/h)                                 1551             486     1016
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1    WB 2     NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                          54     185      49        5    103
Volume Left                            0     185       0        5      0
Volume Right                           5       0       0        0    103
cSH                                 1700   1551    1700      486    1016
Volume to Capacity                  0.03    0.12    0.03    0.01    0.10
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0      10       0        1      8
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     7.6     0.0    12.5     8.9
Lane LOS                                       A                B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     6.0              9.1
Approach LOS                                                    A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         6.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  26.1%        ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                             Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                  12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      20       110     10     180        0        0       0     0      5        0      30
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                  Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                    0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      22      120       11    196        0         0      0      0      5       0      33
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               196                      141                       332    299     82    299      359     196
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   196                      141                       332    299     82    299      359     196
tC, single (s)                        4.1                      4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                        99                      100    100    100     99      100      96
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1377                      1442                      594    609    978    650      564     846
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         141      207       38
Volume Left                             0       11       5
Volume Right                         120         0      33
cSH                                 1700    1442       811
Volume to Capacity                  0.08     0.01     0.05
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        1       4
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      0.5     9.7
Lane LOS                                         A       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       0.5     9.7
Approach LOS                                             A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           1.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    27.6%       ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                   12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        20       5        0       0      10        5      170       0     10      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                22       5        0       0      11        5      185       0     11       0       0       0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                16                        5                        63     65       5     73       63      14
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   16                         5                        63     65       5     73      63       14
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       99                      100                        80    100      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1601                     1616                       923    814    1078    899      817    1066
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          27       16     196
Volume Left                           22        0     185
Volume Right                           0        5      11
cSH                                 1601    1700      930
Volume to Capacity                  0.01     0.01    0.21
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 1        0      20
Control Delay (s)                    5.8      0.0     9.9
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   5.8      0.0     9.9
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          8.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   24.7%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                          8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                          12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL       WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR    SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                          50       65      90      35        100      120        130      310      45      45     190      50
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0     5.0                 5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0            4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00       0.97     0.95            0.97    0.95
Frt                                          1.00    0.85               1.00     0.85       1.00     0.98            1.00    0.97
Flt Protected                                0.98    1.00               0.99     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1823    1583               1839     1583       3433     3472            3433    3429
Flt Permitted                                0.79    1.00               0.87     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1476    1583               1623     1583       3433     3472            3433    3429
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        54      71      98       38       109      130        141      337      49      49     207      54
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      83        0          0    110            0      13       0       0      28       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    125       15        0      147        20       141      373        0      49    233        0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm               Perm        Prot                     Prot
Protected Phases                               4                           8                    5       2               1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                   8
Actuated Green, G (s)                        8.1      8.1                8.1      8.1        5.3     28.7            2.2    25.6
Effective Green, g (s)                       8.1      8.1                8.1      8.1        5.3     28.7            2.2     25.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                          0.15     0.15               0.15     0.15       0.10     0.54           0.04    0.48
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0            4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0            3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                           226      242               248      242        343     1880            143     1656
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                             c0.04    c0.11           0.01     0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.08     0.01              c0.09     0.01
v/c Ratio                                   0.55     0.06               0.59     0.08       0.41     0.20           0.34    0.14
Uniform Delay, d1                           20.8     19.2               20.9     19.3       22.4      6.2           24.7     7.6
Progression Factor                          1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00           1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                        2.9      0.1                3.8      0.1        0.8      0.2            1.4     0.2
Delay (s)                                   23.7     19.3               24.7     19.4       23.2      6.5           26.1     7.8
Level of Service                               C        B                  C        B          C        A              C       A
Approach Delay (s)                          21.8                        22.2                         10.9                   10.7
Approach LOS                                   C                           C                            B                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             15.0          HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.31
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             53.0       Sum of lost time (s)                        14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   38.9%        ICU Level of Service                           A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 8
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1455            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       428             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 886             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 886             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1455              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               25                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1455           25                       vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 404            7                        v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1673           28                       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1673        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1673         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1673         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1645         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             28           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   13.2             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.301
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1430              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               210               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             1400              ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1430           210                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 397            58                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1644           235                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1644    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1879             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1879             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                11.2   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.221
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 59.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 59.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1640            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       482             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 998             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 998             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    15.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1660              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               180               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      425               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1660           180           425         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 504            55            130         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2085           222           523         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2085        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2085         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2085         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1863         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             222          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   19.5             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.318
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1480              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               425               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      180               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1480           425           180        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 451            130           55         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1868           523           222        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1868    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2391             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2391             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                22.9   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.350
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 56.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1905            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       560             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1160            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1160            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    18.4            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1265            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       372             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 770             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 770             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    12.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1265              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               305               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      170               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1265           305           170         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 372            90            50          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1540           362           202         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1540        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1540         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1540         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1178         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             362          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.331
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            960               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               170               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      305               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         960            170           305        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 282            50            90         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1169           202           362        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1169    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1371             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1371             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                13.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.300
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.1     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak

_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1130            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       332             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 688             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________
Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway
_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 688             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    10.9            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A
  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1070              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               130               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             800               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1070           130                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 382            46                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1582           187                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1582        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1582         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1582         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1395         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             187          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   10.7             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.315
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.8      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak

_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            940               vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________

Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               45                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________
Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft
____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________
Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         940            45                       vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 336            16                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1390           65                       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1390    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________
                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1455             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1455             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                12.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.275
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) AM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     985             veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       290             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 600             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 600             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    9.5             pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         A

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                    12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           95     550      40       100      270      110         40       80     90     220       85      55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900    1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0       4.0      5.0             4.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95           0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.92           1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3504              1770     3539     1583       1770     3258           3433     1752
Flt Permitted                        0.57    1.00              0.28     1.00     1.00       0.66     1.00           0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1067    3504                529    3539     1583       1230     3258           3433     1752
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       103     598      43       109      293      120         43       87     98     239       92      60
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       8       0          0        0      60           0      84      0        0      43       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                103     633        0      109      293        60         43     101       0    239      109        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                     Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5      2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               19.2     19.2              27.1    27.1      27.1        9.2     7.7             5.4     11.6
Effective Green, g (s)              19.2     19.2              27.1    27.1      27.1        9.2     7.7             5.4     11.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.35     0.35              0.50    0.50      0.50       0.17    0.14            0.10     0.21
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0    5.0             4.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   378    1241                354    1770       792        224    463             342       375
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.18             c0.02    0.08                 0.01    0.03           c0.07    c0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.10                       0.13              0.04       0.03
v/c Ratio                           0.27     0.51              0.31    0.17      0.08       0.19    0.22            0.70     0.29
Uniform Delay, d1                   12.5     13.8                7.8    7.4       7.0       19.1    20.6            23.6     17.8
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00            1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.8      1.5               0.5     0.2       0.2        0.4     0.2             6.1      0.4
Delay (s)                           14.3     15.3                8.3    7.6       7.2       19.6    20.8            29.7     18.3
Level of Service                       B        B                  A      A         A           B      C               C        B
Approach Delay (s)                           15.2                       7.6                         20.6                     25.3
Approach LOS                                    B                         A                            C                        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             15.8         HCM Level of Service                       B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.46
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             54.2         Sum of lost time (s)                     18.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   48.4%          ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                          Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    525      295        60    410        0         0      0      0      35        0      95
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.36    1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1315    3539                                    1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    571      321        65    446        0         0      0      0      38        0     103
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     142         0       0       0         0      0      0       0        0      92
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    571     179         65    446        0         0      0      0      19       19      11
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                                6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                                6              6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      29.0     29.0     36.6     36.6                                     5.4     5.4     5.4
Effective Green, g (s)                      29.0    29.0      36.6    36.6                                      5.4     5.4    5.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.56     0.56     0.70     0.70                                    0.10    0.10    0.10
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0                                     3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2836      883     1031    2491                                      175     175    164
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.11              0.00    c0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                                     c0.11     0.04                                            c0.01    0.01    0.01
v/c Ratio                                  0.20     0.20     0.06     0.18                                    0.11    0.11    0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                           5.7      5.7       2.6     2.6                                    21.1    21.1    21.0
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.2      0.5       0.0     0.2                                     0.3     0.3     0.2
Delay (s)                                   5.9      6.3       2.6     2.8                                    21.4    21.4    21.2
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                       C       C       C
Approach Delay (s)                          6.0                        2.7                      0.0                   21.2
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             6.3        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.20
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            52.0        Sum of lost time (s)                 15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  37.4%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                              12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        95      420       0       0     290      105       180        0     155       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                      5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.45     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1614     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    103      457       0       0     315      114       196        0     168       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0       61         0       0     144       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             103      457        0       0    315        53        98       98      24       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                          8        2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            33.0      33.0                   23.2      23.2       7.2     7.2      7.2
Effective Green, g (s)           33.0      33.0                   23.2      23.2       7.2     7.2      7.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.66     0.66                    0.46     0.46      0.14    0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0       5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               1235     2326                    2961       732      241     241      227
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.13                    0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.05                                      0.03     c0.06    0.06     0.02
v/c Ratio                         0.08     0.20                   0.11      0.07      0.41    0.41     0.11
Uniform Delay, d1                  3.3      3.4                    7.6       7.5      19.6    19.6     18.7
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.0      0.2                    0.1       0.2       1.1     1.1      0.2
Delay (s)                          3.3      3.6                    7.7       7.7      20.7    20.7     18.9
Level of Service                     A        A                      A         A         C       C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          3.5                    7.7                        19.9                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            9.2      HCM Level of Service                        A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.23
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           50.2      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 37.4%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                              4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                        12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR       NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         160     400       255       25        40     125
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00      0.97    1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00      0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583      3433    1863      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00      0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583      3433    1863      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       174     435       277      27        43      136
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0    266          0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                174     169       277       27        43     136
Turn Type                                   Perm       Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                  5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                 4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)               19.0     19.0      8.4    20.0        6.6    49.0
Effective Green, g (s)              19.0     19.0      8.4    20.0        6.6    49.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.39     0.39     0.17    0.41       0.13    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   686      614     589      760       251     1583
v/s Ratio Prot                      0.10             c0.08    0.01      c0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.11                                0.09
v/c Ratio                           0.25     0.27     0.47    0.04       0.17    0.09
Uniform Delay, d1                   10.2     10.3     18.3     8.7       18.8     0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.9      1.1      0.6     0.0        0.3     0.1
Delay (s)                           11.1     11.4     18.9     8.7       19.1     0.1
Level of Service                       B        B        B       A          B       A
Approach Delay (s)                  11.3                      18.0        4.7
Approach LOS                           B                         B          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              12.1          HCM Level of Service            B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.30
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              49.0       Sum of lost time (s)             15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    36.4%        ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                               Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                        5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                        5/21/2010



Movement                            EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        35      5       95      35      5      220
Sign Control                        Free                    Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38       5    103       38      5     239
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                43            285       41
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                    43            285      41
tC, single (s)                                        4.1            6.4     6.3
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                2.2            3.5      3.4
p0 queue free %                                       93             99       76
cM capacity (veh/h)                                 1565            658     1016
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                          43     141       5     239
Volume Left                            0     103       5       0
Volume Right                           5       0       0     239
cSH                                 1700   1565      658    1016
Volume to Capacity                  0.03    0.07    0.01    0.24
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0       5       1      23
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     5.6    10.5     9.6
Lane LOS                                       A       B       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     5.6     9.6
Approach LOS                                           A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         7.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  23.8%       ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 5
AM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                          5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      30       75      0       5       25
Sign Control                                Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                        0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      33       82       0      5       27
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                82                             114       82
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   82                              114      82
tC, single (s)                       4.1                              6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                              99       97
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1516                             882      978
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          33       82      33
Volume Left                            0        0       5
Volume Right                           0        0      27
cSH                                 1700    1700      961
Volume to Capacity                  0.02     0.05    0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0        0       3
Control Delay (s)                    0.0      0.0     8.9
Lane LOS                                                A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      0.0     8.9
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   13.9%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                               5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        45       5        0       0       5        5       55       5      5      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                49       5        0       0       5        5        60      5      5       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                11                        5                       111    114       5    120      111       8
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   11                         5                       111    114       5    120      111        8
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                      100                        93     99      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1608                     1616                       846    752    1078    827      755    1074
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          54       11      71
Volume Left                           49        0      60
Volume Right                           0        5       5
cSH                                 1608    1700      852
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.01    0.08
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2        0       7
Control Delay (s)                    6.6      0.0     9.6
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.6      0.0     9.6
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          7.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   19.7%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                       8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                  5/21/2010



Movement                             EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           10     165      140       15      75      15         30      70     15      25     265      10
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0        4.0     5.0            4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00       0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00     0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    0.97           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00      1.00     0.95   1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863     1583     1770    1863    1583       3433    3447           3433    3520
Flt Permitted                        0.70    1.00     1.00     0.64    1.00    1.00       0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1311    1863     1583     1200    1863    1583       3433    3447           3433    3520
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        11     179      152       16      82      16         33      76     16      27     288       11
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0      122        0       0      13          0       8      0       0        4       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  11    179        30       16      82       3         33      84      0      27    295         0
Turn Type                           Perm             Perm     Perm            Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                                4                        8                   5      2               1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                 4       8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)               10.0     10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0     10.0        1.8   26.6            0.7     25.5
Effective Green, g (s)              10.0     10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0     10.0        1.8   26.6            0.7     25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.19     0.19     0.19    0.19    0.19     0.19       0.04    0.52          0.01     0.50
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0       4.0     5.0           4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   256      363      309     234     363      309       120    1787             47    1750
v/s Ratio Prot                              c0.10                     0.04               c0.01    0.02          0.01    c0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.01              0.02    0.01             0.00
v/c Ratio                           0.04     0.49     0.10    0.07    0.23     0.01       0.28   0.05           0.57     0.17
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.8     18.4     16.9    16.8    17.4     16.7       24.1    6.1           25.2      7.1
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00   1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      1.1      0.1     0.1     0.3      0.0        1.2    0.0           15.9      0.2
Delay (s)                           16.8     19.4     17.1    17.0    17.7     16.7       25.4    6.1           41.0      7.3
Level of Service                       B        B        B       B       B        B          C      A              D        A
Approach Delay (s)                           18.3                     17.5                       11.2                    10.1
Approach LOS                                    B                        B                          B                       B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              14.3       HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.26
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              51.3       Sum of lost time (s)                   14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    33.6%        ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                      Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                  9: Dillon Dr & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        35      15       150       0      90       55        0       0      0      0      110      60
Sign Control                                Free                      Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                        0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38      16      163        0      98       60         0      0       0      0     120       65
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                        1221
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               158                       179                       427     332     98    302      383     128
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   158                       179                       427     332     98    302      383     128
tC, single (s)                        4.1                       4.1                       7.1     6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                       2.2                       3.5     4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                       100                       100     100    100    100       78      93
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1422                      1396                       406     572    958    637      535     922
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         217      158      185
Volume Left                            38        0       0
Volume Right                         163        60      65
cSH                                 1422    1396       628
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.00     0.29
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  2        0      31
Control Delay (s)                     1.5      0.0    13.1
Lane LOS                                A                B
Approach Delay (s)                    1.5     0.0     13.1
Approach LOS                                             B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           4.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    39.5%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 9
AM Peak Period                                                                        10: Dillon Dr & NB Frontage Rd
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                   12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        15      0      130      40      0        0
Sign Control                        Stop                    Free   Free
Grade                                0%                      0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16      0     141       43      0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              326       0        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  326       0         0
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                      97     100       91
cM capacity (veh/h)                 610    1085     1623
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1     NB 2
Volume Total                          16    141       43
Volume Left                           16    141        0
Volume Right                           0      0        0
cSH                                  610   1623     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.09     0.03
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      7        0
Control Delay (s)                   11.1    7.4      0.0
Lane LOS                               B      A
Approach Delay (s)                  11.1    5.7
Approach LOS                           B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         6.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  17.2%       ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                         Page 10
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1225            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       360             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 746             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 746             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1225              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               55                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1225           55                       vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 373            17                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1546           67                       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1546        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1546         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1546         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1479         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             67           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   12.1             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.304
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1170              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               140               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             1400              ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1170           140                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 357            43                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1477           172                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1477    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1649             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1649             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                9.5   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               A

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.215
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 60.0     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 60.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1310            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       360             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 745             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 745             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    11.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1375              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               245               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      500               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1375           245           500         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 374            67            136         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1547           269           549         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1547        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1547         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1547         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1278         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             269          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.9             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.322
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1130              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               500               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      245               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1130           500           245        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 307            136           67         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1271           549           269        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1271    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1820             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1820             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                18.5   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.332
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.4     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1630            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       479             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 992             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 992             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    15.7            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1900            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       522             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1080            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1080            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    17.1            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1900              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               550               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      220               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1900           550           220         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 522            151           60          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2161           610           244         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2161        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2161         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2161         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1551         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             610          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   19.7             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.353
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.9      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1350              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               220               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      550               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1350           220           550        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 371            60            151        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1535           244           610        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1535    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1779             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1779             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                16.7   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.308
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1570            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       431             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 893             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 893             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1565              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               225               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             800               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1565           225                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 477            69                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1975           276                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1975        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1975         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1975         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1699         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             276          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   14.0             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.323
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1340              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               30                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1340           30                       vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 409            9                        v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1691           37                       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1691    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1728             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1728             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                14.5   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.280
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.6     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2017) PM Peak
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           Year 2017
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1370            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       403             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 834             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 834             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    13.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           95     435      80       225      525      185         70      165     145     265      130      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0       4.0       5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.93            1.00     0.95
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3457              1770     3539     1583       1770     3290            3433     1765
Flt Permitted                        0.44    1.00              0.29     1.00     1.00       0.62     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     815   3457                541    3539     1583       1160     3290            3433     1765
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       103     473      87       245      571      201         76      179     158     288      141      76
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      24       0          0        0    112            0    129        0        0      33       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                103     536        0      245      571        89         76     208        0    288      184        0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               16.1    16.1               25.1    25.1      25.1       12.6    10.3              7.0     15.0
Effective Green, g (s)              16.1    16.1               25.1    25.1      25.1       12.6    10.3              7.0     15.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.29    0.29               0.45    0.45      0.45       0.22    0.18             0.12     0.27
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0             4.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0                3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   233     987                350    1575       704        284     601             426       469
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.15              c0.06    0.16                 0.01    0.06            c0.08    c0.10
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.13                      c0.25              0.06       0.05
v/c Ratio                           0.44    0.54               0.70    0.36      0.13       0.27    0.35             0.68     0.39
Uniform Delay, d1                   16.5    17.0               10.7    10.4       9.2       17.8    20.1             23.6     17.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                6.0     2.1                6.2     0.6       0.4        0.5     0.3              4.2      0.5
Delay (s)                           22.5    19.2               16.9    11.0       9.6       18.3    20.5             27.8     17.5
Level of Service                       C       B                   B      B         A           B      C                C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          19.7                       12.1                         20.1                      23.4
Approach LOS                                   B                          B                            C                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             17.5         HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.55
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             56.4         Sum of lost time (s)                       8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   58.8%          ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0    555      260      190     890        0         0      0      0     105        0     110
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900     1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       4.0     5.0                                     5.0      5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                          0.91     1.00     0.97    0.95                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                              1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                              1.00     1.00     0.35    1.00                                     0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583      1267    3539                                    1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0    603      283      207     967        0         0      0      0     114        0     120
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     153         0       0       0         0      0      0       0        0      73
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0    603     130       207     967        0         0      0      0      57       57      47
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                                6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                                6              6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      22.5     22.5     32.9     32.9                                     6.2     6.2     6.2
Effective Green, g (s)                      22.5    22.5      32.9    32.9                                      6.2     6.2    6.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.46     0.46     0.67     0.67                                    0.13    0.13    0.13
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0     5.0       4.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0                                     3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2330      725     1131    2371                                      212     212    200
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.12              0.02    c0.27
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.08     0.10                                            c0.03    0.03    0.03
v/c Ratio                                  0.26     0.18     0.18     0.41                                    0.27    0.27    0.24
Uniform Delay, d1                           8.2      7.8       3.0     3.7                                    19.4    19.4    19.3
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                    1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.3      0.5       0.1     0.5                                     0.7     0.7     0.6
Delay (s)                                   8.4      8.4       3.1     4.2                                    20.1    20.1    19.9
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                       C       C       B
Approach Delay (s)                          8.4                        4.0                      0.0                   20.0
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             7.3        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.39
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            49.1        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  39.7%         ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                              12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        60      590       0       0     750      130       285        0     210       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      5.0                      5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.27     1.00                    1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  980    3539                    6408     1583      1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     65      641       0       0     815      141       310        0     228       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0        0       75         0       0     144       0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               65     641        0       0    815        66      155      155       84       0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                      Perm      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                        8                          2
Permitted Phases                     4                                          8         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            31.0      31.0                   24.0      24.0      10.2    10.2     10.2
Effective Green, g (s)           31.0      31.0                   24.0      24.0      10.2    10.2     10.2
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.61      0.61                    0.47     0.47      0.20    0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      5.0                     5.0       5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                737     2143                    3004       742       335     335      315
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.18                    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.05                                      0.04     c0.09    0.09     0.05
v/c Ratio                         0.09     0.30                   0.27      0.09      0.46    0.46     0.27
Uniform Delay, d1                  4.2      4.9                    8.3       7.5      18.1    18.1     17.3
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00      1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      0.4                    0.2       0.2       1.0     1.0      0.5
Delay (s)                          4.3      5.2                    8.5       7.8      19.1    19.1     17.8
Level of Service                     A        A                      A         A         B       B        B
Approach Delay (s)                          5.1                    8.4                        18.5                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  A                      A                           B                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            9.8      HCM Level of Service                        A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.34
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           51.2      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 39.7%       ICU Level of Service                        A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                        3/29/2010



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         300     440      660     100         80     200
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00     0.97    1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1583     3433    1863      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       326     478      717     109        87      217
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0    329         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                326     149      717     109         87     217
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            16.0       16.0     13.7    25.5        7.8    51.5
Effective Green, g (s)           16.0       16.0     13.7    25.5        7.8    51.5
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.31       0.31     0.27    0.50       0.15    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0        5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                550        492      913     922       282     1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.18               c0.21    0.06      c0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.09                                0.14
v/c Ratio                           0.59    0.30     0.79    0.12       0.31    0.14
Uniform Delay, d1                   15.0    13.5     17.5     7.0       19.4     0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                4.6     1.6      4.5     0.1        0.6     0.2
Delay (s)                           19.6    15.1     22.0     7.0       20.1     0.2
Level of Service                       B       B        C       A          C       A
Approach Delay (s)                  16.9                     20.0        5.9
Approach LOS                           B                        C          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             16.5          HCM Level of Service            B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             51.5       Sum of lost time (s)             14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   50.4%        ICU Level of Service                A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                        5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                        5/21/2010



Movement                            EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        45     15      225      45     15      125
Sign Control                        Free                    Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                      0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                49      16    245       49     16     136
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                65            595       57
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                    65            595      57
tC, single (s)                                        4.1            6.4     6.3
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                2.2            3.5      3.4
p0 queue free %                                       84             96       86
cM capacity (veh/h)                                 1537            393      995
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1     NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                          65     293      16     136
Volume Left                            0     245      16       0
Volume Right                          16       0       0     136
cSH                                 1700   1537      393     995
Volume to Capacity                  0.04    0.16    0.04    0.14
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0      14       3      12
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     6.7    14.6     9.2
Lane LOS                                       A       B       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     6.7     9.8
Approach LOS                                           A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         6.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  31.5%       ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 5
PM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                          5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      20       90      0       5      105
Sign Control                                Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                        0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      22       98       0      5     114
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                98                             120       98
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   98                              120      98
tC, single (s)                       4.1                              6.4     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                              99       88
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1495                             876      958
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          22       98     120
Volume Left                            0        0       5
Volume Right                           0        0     114
cSH                                 1700    1700      954
Volume to Capacity                  0.01     0.06    0.13
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0        0      11
Control Delay (s)                    0.0      0.0     9.3
Lane LOS                                                A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      0.0     9.3
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          4.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   18.2%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                               5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        50       5        0       0      10        5       75      10      5      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                54       5        0       0      11        5        82     11      5       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                16                        5                       128    130       5    139      128      14
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   16                         5                       128    130       5    139      128      14
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                      100                        90     99      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1601                     1616                       824    734    1078    797      737    1066
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          60       16      98
Volume Left                           54        0      82
Volume Right                           0        5       5
cSH                                 1601    1700      823
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.01    0.12
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 3        0      10
Control Delay (s)                    6.7      0.0    10.0
Lane LOS                               A                A
Approach Delay (s)                   6.7      0.0    10.0
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          7.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   21.4%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                     8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         45      70      80        45     160      65        120     255     45      40     125      45
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900    1900      1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 4.0     5.0     5.0       4.0     5.0     5.0        4.0     5.0            4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00       0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    0.98           1.00    0.96
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     1863    1583      1770    1863    1583       3433    3459           3433    3399
Flt Permitted                     0.64     1.00    1.00      0.71    1.00    1.00       0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                1197     1863    1583      1318    1863    1583       3433    3459           3433    3399
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                      49      76      87        49     174      71        130     277     49      43     136       49
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0       0      74         0       0      60          0      18      0       0      28        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               49       76      13        49    174       11       130     308       0      43    157         0
Turn Type                       pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt            Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                      7      4                  3      8                   5      2               1       6
Permitted Phases                      4               4         8               8
Actuated Green, G (s)             10.5     8.4      8.4     10.5      8.4     8.4        3.8    25.8           1.4    23.4
Effective Green, g (s)            10.5     8.4      8.4     10.5      8.4     8.4        3.8    25.8           1.4    23.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.19    0.15     0.15     0.19     0.15    0.15       0.07    0.46          0.03     0.42
Clearance Time (s)                  4.0    5.0      5.0       4.0     5.0     5.0        4.0     5.0           4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 247    281      239       265     281     239        234    1602             86    1428
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01    0.04               0.01   c0.09              c0.04   c0.09          0.01    0.05
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.03             0.01     0.03             0.01
v/c Ratio                         0.20    0.27     0.05      0.18    0.62    0.04       0.56    0.19          0.50    0.11
Uniform Delay, d1                 18.9    20.9     20.3      18.9    22.2    20.2       25.1     8.8          26.8     9.8
Progression Factor                1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00          1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.4     0.5      0.1       0.3     4.0     0.1        2.8     0.3           4.5     0.2
Delay (s)                         19.3    21.5     20.3      19.2    26.2    20.3       28.0     9.1          31.3    10.0
Level of Service                      B      C        C         B       C       C          C       A             C       A
Approach Delay (s)                        20.5                       23.6                       14.5                  14.0
Approach LOS                                 C                          C                          B                     B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           17.7        HCM Level of Service                     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.29
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           55.7        Sum of lost time (s)                   13.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 38.6%         ICU Level of Service                      A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                  9: Dillon Dr & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                                5/21/2010



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        40      15        95       0     150       45        0       0      0      0      110     140
Sign Control                                Free                      Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                        0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                43      16      103        0     163       49         0      0       0      0     120      152
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                        1221
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               212                       120                       554     367     68    342      394     188
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   212                       120                       554     367     68    342      394     188
tC, single (s)                        4.1                       4.1                       7.1     6.5    6.2    7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                       2.2                       3.5     4.0    3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                       100                       100     100    100    100       77      82
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1358                      1468                       293     544    995    597      525     855
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         163      212      272
Volume Left                            43        0       0
Volume Right                         103        49     152
cSH                                 1358    1468       670
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.00     0.41
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  2        0      49
Control Delay (s)                     2.3      0.0    14.0
Lane LOS                                A                B
Approach Delay (s)                    2.3     0.0     14.0
Approach LOS                                             B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           6.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    43.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 9
PM Peak Period                                                                        10: Dillon Dr & NB Frontage Rd
Proposed Action (Year 2017) Traffic Volumes                                                                   12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBR      NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        15      0      165      35      0        0
Sign Control                        Stop                    Free   Free
Grade                                0%                      0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                16      0     179       38      0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                 None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              397       0        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  397       0         0
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                      97     100       89
cM capacity (veh/h)                 541    1085     1623
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1     NB 2
Volume Total                          16    179       38
Volume Left                           16    179        0
Volume Right                           0      0        0
cSH                                  541   1623     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.03   0.11     0.02
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2      9        0
Control Delay (s)                   11.9    7.5      0.0
Lane LOS                               B      A
Approach Delay (s)                  11.9    6.2
Approach LOS                           B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         6.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  19.1%       ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                         Page 10
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3160            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       878             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1817            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1817            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                62.1            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    29.2            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         D

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3160              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               60                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      569               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3160           60            569         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 878            17            158         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3634           67            635         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3634        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3634         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3634         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  3567         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             67           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   30.1             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.304
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3099              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               569               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      60                vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3099           569           60         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90          0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 861            158           17         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3564           635           67         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   3564    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         4199             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         4199             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                34.2   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.527
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 52.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 52.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3668            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       1118            v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 2315            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 2315            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                52.3            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    44.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         E

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3668              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               554               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      739               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3668           554           739         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 1113           169           225         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           4607           682           910         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   4607        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      4607         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             4607         4400                  Yes
      12
     v    = v - v                  3925         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             682          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   41.2             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence F

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.359
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3114              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               739               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      554               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3114           739           554        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 949            225           169        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3930           910           682        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   3930    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         4840             4700                 Yes
      FO
     v                         4840             4600                 Yes
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                41.9   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               F

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.801
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 46.6     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 46.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3853            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       1175            v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 2432            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 2432            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                                mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                                    pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         F

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2127            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       626             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1295            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1295            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    20.6            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2127              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               845               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      172               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2127           845           172         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 626            249           51          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2590           1004          204         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2590        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2590         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2590         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1586         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             1004         2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   23.4             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.388
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1282              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               172               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      845               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1282           172           845        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 377            51            249        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1561           204           1004       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1561    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1765             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1765             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                16.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.308
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1453            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       427             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 885             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 885             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1453              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               258               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      102               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1453           258           102         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 519            92            36          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2148           370           146         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2148        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2148         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2148         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1778         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             370          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   20.0+            pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.331
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1195              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               102               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      258               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1195           102           258        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70          0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 427            36            92         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1767           146           370        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1767    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1913             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1913             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                15.9   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.284
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1300            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       464             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 961             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 961             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    15.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         245    1245      105      225      780      255        100      205      200    520      215      150
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.99              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.93            1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3498              1770     3539     1583       1770     3277            3433     1748
Flt Permitted                        0.33    1.00              0.11     1.00     1.00       0.50     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     621   3498                201    3539     1583         923    3277            3433     1748
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       266   1353      114       245      848      277        109      223     217     565      234     163
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       7       0          0        0     134           0     147       0        0       28       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                266    1460        0      245      848      143        109      293        0    565      369         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               33.1    33.1               45.1    45.1      45.1       16.6    13.4             15.0     25.2
Effective Green, g (s)              33.1    33.1               45.1    45.1      45.1       16.6    13.4             15.0     25.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.38     0.38              0.52    0.52      0.52       0.19    0.15             0.17     0.29
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0              4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   235    1323                247    1824       816        206     502              589      503
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.42             c0.09    0.24                 0.02    0.09            c0.16    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                  c0.43                          0.42              0.09       0.08
v/c Ratio                        1.13       1.10               0.99    0.46      0.17       0.53    0.58             0.96     0.73
Uniform Delay, d1                27.2       27.2               22.9    13.5      11.3       31.0    34.5             35.9     28.1
Progression Factor               1.00       1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2            98.8       58.3               54.8     0.9       0.5        2.4     1.7             26.9      5.5
Delay (s)                       126.0       85.5               77.7    14.4      11.8       33.5    36.2             62.8     33.6
Level of Service                    F          F                   E      B         B          C       D                E        C
Approach Delay (s)                          91.7                       25.2                         35.6                      50.7
Approach LOS                                   F                          C                            D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             56.7         HCM Level of Service                        E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.96
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             87.5         Sum of lost time (s)                      13.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   92.1%          ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                    4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0   1225      790      230    1160        0         0      0      0     200       0     235
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                           0.91    1.00     0.97     0.95                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                               1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                               1.00    1.00     0.13     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583       481    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0   1332      859      250    1261        0         0      0      0     217       0     255
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     418         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0      47
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0   1332     441       250    1261        0         0      0      0     108     109     208
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                              6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      39.7     39.7     52.2     52.2                                   15.2    15.2     15.2
Effective Green, g (s)                     39.7     39.7     52.2     52.2                                   15.2    15.2     15.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.51     0.51     0.67     0.67                                   0.20    0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                          5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                       3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2608      812      610    2387                                     330     330     311
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.26              0.04    c0.36
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.28     0.24                                            0.06    0.06    c0.13
v/c Ratio                                  0.51     0.54     0.41     0.53                                   0.33    0.33     0.67
Uniform Delay, d1                          12.4     12.7       6.4     6.4                                   26.7    26.7     28.8
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.7      2.6       0.5     0.8                                    0.6     0.6      5.3
Delay (s)                                  13.2     15.3       6.8     7.2                                   27.3    27.3     34.1
Level of Service                              B        B         A       A                                      C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                         14.0                        7.2                      0.0                  31.0
Approach LOS                                  B                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            13.4        HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.56
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            77.4        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  77.0%         ICU Level of Service                   D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      175     1365        0       0   1145     250        380         0    500        0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00    0.85       1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.12     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  448    3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    190    1484        0       0   1245      272        413        0     543       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0       0     171           0       0        9      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             190     1484        0       0   1245     101        206      207     534        0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                     Perm       Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                       8                           2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8          2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            42.3      42.3                   31.3     31.3       32.4    32.4     32.4
Effective Green, g (s)           42.3      42.3                   31.3     31.3       32.4    32.4     32.4
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.50      0.50                    0.37    0.37       0.38    0.38     0.38
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                435     1767                    2368      585        643     643      606
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.03    c0.42                    0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.19                                     0.06       0.12    0.12    c0.34
v/c Ratio                         0.44     0.84                   0.53     0.17       0.32    0.32     0.88
Uniform Delay, d1                 12.7     18.3                   20.9     18.0       18.4    18.4     24.4
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.7      5.0                    0.8      0.6        0.3     0.3     14.1
Delay (s)                         13.4     23.3                   21.7     18.6       18.7    18.7     38.5
Level of Service                     B        C                      C        B          B       B        D
Approach Delay (s)                         22.2                   21.2                        29.9                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  C                      C                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           23.6      HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           84.7      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 77.0%       ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                              4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         820    1145      530     175       275      980
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.97    0.91     0.97    1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  0.94    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3303    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3303    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       891   1245       576     190       299    1065
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 112     334         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               1339     351      576     190       299     1065
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            40.1       40.1     17.6    33.9       12.3    84.0
Effective Green, g (s)           40.1       40.1     17.6    33.9       12.3    84.0
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.48       0.48     0.21    0.40       0.15    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                5.0         5.0      4.0     5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1577         688      719     752        518    1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.41                0.17    0.10       0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.24                                c0.67
v/c Ratio                           0.85    0.51     0.80    0.25       0.58     0.67
Uniform Delay, d1                   19.3    15.2     31.5    16.6       33.4      0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                5.9     2.7      6.4     0.2        1.6      2.3
Delay (s)                           25.2    17.8     37.9    16.8       35.0      2.3
Level of Service                       C       B        D       B          C        A
Approach Delay (s)                  22.8                     32.7        9.5
Approach LOS                           C                        C          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             20.3          HCM Level of Service            C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.76
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             84.0       Sum of lost time (s)              5.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   69.8%        ICU Level of Service               C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                          5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                               4/6/2010



Movement                            EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       280       40      125     240     30      250
Sign Control                        Free                      Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)               304       43     136      261     33     272
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                 348            859      326
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                     348            859      326
tC, single (s)                                          4.1            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                  2.2            3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                         89             89       62
cM capacity (veh/h)                                   1211            290      715
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     WB 2     NB 1   NB 2
Volume Total                         348      136      261      33    272
Volume Left                             0     136         0     33      0
Volume Right                           43        0        0      0    272
cSH                                 1700    1211     1700      290    715
Volume to Capacity                  0.20     0.11     0.15    0.11   0.38
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        9        0      9     45
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      8.3      0.0   19.0   13.1
Lane LOS                                         A               C      B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       2.9            13.7
Approach LOS                                                     B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           5.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    39.3%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                   4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      70       560     10     230        0        0       0     0     10       0     100
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                 Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                   0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      76      609       11    250        0         0      0      0     11      0      109
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               250                      685                       761    652    380    652     957     250
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   250                      685                       761    652    380    652     957     250
tC, single (s)                        4.1                      4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5     4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                       99                       100    100    100     97     100      86
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1316                      909                       275    382    667    377     255     789
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         685      261      120
Volume Left                             0       11      11
Volume Right                         609         0     109
cSH                                 1700      909      718
Volume to Capacity                  0.40     0.01     0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        1      15
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      0.5    11.0
Lane LOS                                         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       0.5    11.0
Approach LOS                                             B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           1.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    51.7%       ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                  Page 6
AM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        75       5        0       0      10       10      225       0     30      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                82       5        0       0      11       11      245       0     33       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                22                        5                       185    190       5    217      185      16
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   22                         5                       185    190       5    217      185      16
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       95                      100                        67    100      97    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1594                     1616                       746    669    1078    689      673    1063
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          87       22     277
Volume Left                           82        0     245
Volume Right                           0       11      33
cSH                                 1594    1700      774
Volume to Capacity                  0.05     0.01    0.36
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 4        0      41
Control Delay (s)                    6.9      0.0    12.2
Lane LOS                               A                B
Approach Delay (s)                   6.9      0.0    12.2
Approach LOS                                            B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         10.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   32.0%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
AM Peak Period                                                                                          8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL       WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                          30      275     530      30        135       95        165      380      30     300      730      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0     5.0                 5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00       0.97     0.95            0.97     0.95
Frt                                          1.00    0.85               1.00     0.85       1.00     0.99            1.00     0.99
Flt Protected                                1.00    1.00               0.99     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1854    1583               1846     1583       3433     3500            3433     3518
Flt Permitted                                0.96    1.00               0.88     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1780    1583               1639     1583       3433     3500            3433     3518
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        33     299     576       33       147      103        179      413      33     326      793       33
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0    222         0          0      72           0        6      0        0        3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    332     354         0      180        31       179      440        0    326      823         0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm               Perm        Prot                     Prot
Protected Phases                               4                           8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                   8
Actuated Green, G (s)                       22.3     22.3               22.3     22.3       8.4      26.2            11.7     29.5
Effective Green, g (s)                      22.3     22.3               22.3     22.3       8.4     26.2             11.7     29.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                          0.30     0.30               0.30     0.30      0.11      0.35            0.16     0.40
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0       4.0       5.0             4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                        3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0             3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                           535      476               493      476       389      1236             541     1399
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                             0.05      0.13           c0.09    c0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.19    c0.22               0.11     0.02
v/c Ratio                                   0.62     0.74               0.37     0.07      0.46     0.36             0.60     0.59
Uniform Delay, d1                           22.3     23.4               20.4     18.5      30.8     17.8             29.1     17.6
Progression Factor                          1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                        2.2      6.2                0.5      0.1       0.9      0.8              1.9      1.8
Delay (s)                                   24.6     29.5               20.8     18.6      31.6     18.6             31.0     19.4
Level of Service                               C        C                  C        B         C        B                C        B
Approach Delay (s)                          27.7                        20.0                        22.3                      22.7
Approach LOS                                   C                           C                           C                         C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.9          HCM Level of Service                       C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             74.2       Sum of lost time (s)                        14.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   75.2%        ICU Level of Service                          D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 8
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1550            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       473             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 978             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 978             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    15.5            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1550              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               154               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      266               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1550           154           266         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 473            47            81          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1956           189           326         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1956        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1956         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1956         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1767         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             189          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   15.7             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.315
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.8      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1389              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               266               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      154               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1389           266           154        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 423            81            47         v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1753           326           189        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1753    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2079             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2079             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                17.8   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.298
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.1     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1655            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       450             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 931             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 931             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1655              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               259               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      817               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1655           259           817         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 450            70            222         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1862           284           897         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1862        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1862         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1862         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1578         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             284          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   17.6             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.324
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1396              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               817               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      259               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1396           817           259        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 379            222           70         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1570           897           284        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1570    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2467             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2467             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                23.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.353
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 56.9     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.9     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2213            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       601             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1245            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1245            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    19.8            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2767            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       760             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1574            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1574            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    25.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2767              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               758               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      425               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2767           758           425         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 760            208           117         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3147           841           472         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3147        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3147         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3147         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  2306         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             841          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   28.2             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.374
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2009              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               425               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      758               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2009           425           758        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 552            117           208        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2285           472           841        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   2285    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2757             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2757             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                24.3   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.346
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.0     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Platteville
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2434            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       669             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1384            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1384            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    22.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2434              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               414               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      123               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2434           414           123         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 742            126           38          v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3072           507           151         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3072        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3072         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3072         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  2565         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             507          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   28.0-            pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.344
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.1      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.1     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2020              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               123               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      414               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2500              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2020           123           414        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 616            38            126        v
Trucks and buses                        7              1             1          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995         0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2550           151           507        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   2550    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2701             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2701             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                22.1   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.316
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               No Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2145            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       654             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1354            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1354            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    21.5            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         185     725      140      205      890      475        125      270      205    425      215      140
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.94            1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3453              1770     3539     1583       1770     3310            3433     1753
Flt Permitted                        0.28    1.00              0.17     1.00     1.00       0.33     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     515   3453                315    3539     1583         621    3310            3433     1753
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       201     788     152       223      967      516        136      293     223     462      234     152
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      17       0          0        0    236            0    142        0        0      26        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                201     923        0      223      967      280        136      374        0    462      360         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               37.1    37.1               46.1    46.1      46.1       20.0    14.0             13.8     21.8
Effective Green, g (s)              37.1    37.1               46.1    46.1      46.1       20.0    14.0             13.8     21.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.42     0.42              0.52    0.52      0.52       0.23    0.16             0.16     0.25
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0              4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   217    1457                248    1856       830        220     527              539      435
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.27             c0.05    0.27                 0.04    0.11            c0.13    c0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.39                      c0.42              0.18       0.10
v/c Ratio                           0.93    0.63               0.90    0.52      0.34       0.62    0.71             0.86     0.83
Uniform Delay, d1                   24.1    20.0               17.1    13.7      12.1       28.6    35.0             36.1     31.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               44.5     2.1               31.5     1.0       1.1        5.1     4.4             12.7     12.2
Delay (s)                           68.6    22.1               48.6    14.7      13.2       33.7    39.4             48.8     43.4
Level of Service                       E       C                  D       B         B          C       D                D        D
Approach Delay (s)                          30.3                       18.7                         38.2                      46.4
Approach LOS                                   C                          B                            D                         D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             30.1         HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             87.9         Sum of lost time (s)                       8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   77.6%          ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                    4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0     985     420      295    1585        0         0      0      0     170       0     170
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                           0.91    1.00     0.97     0.95                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                               1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                               1.00    1.00     0.20     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583       712    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0   1071      457      321    1723        0         0      0      0     185       0     185
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     219         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0      16
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0   1071     238       321    1723        0         0      0      0      92      93     169
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                              6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      39.4     39.4     52.2     52.2                                   13.3    13.3     13.3
Effective Green, g (s)                     39.4     39.4     52.2     52.2                                   13.3    13.3     13.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.52     0.52     0.69     0.69                                   0.18    0.18     0.18
Clearance Time (s)                          5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                       3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2654      826      773    2447                                     296     296     279
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.21              0.04    c0.49
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.15     0.24                                            0.05    0.06    c0.11
v/c Ratio                                  0.40     0.29     0.42     0.70                                   0.31    0.31     0.61
Uniform Delay, d1                          10.9     10.2       5.0     7.0                                   27.1    27.1     28.7
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.5      0.9       0.4     1.7                                    0.6     0.6      3.7
Delay (s)                                  11.4     11.0       5.4     8.7                                   27.7    27.7     32.4
Level of Service                              B        B         A       A                                      C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                         11.3                        8.2                      0.0                  30.1
Approach LOS                                  B                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            11.5        HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.68
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            75.5        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  65.3%         ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        70    1165        0       0   1545      225        345        0     400       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00    0.85       1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.10     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  350    3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     76    1266        0       0   1679      245        375        0     435       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0       0     137           0       0       25      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               76    1266        0       0   1679     108        187      188     410        0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                     Perm       Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                       8                           2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8          2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            46.4      46.4                   36.3     36.3       25.8    25.8     25.8
Effective Green, g (s)           46.4      46.4                   36.3     36.3       25.8    25.8     25.8
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.56      0.56                    0.44    0.44       0.31    0.31     0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                389     1998                    2830      699        528     528      497
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.36                    0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.10                                     0.07       0.11    0.11    c0.26
v/c Ratio                         0.20     0.63                   0.59     0.15       0.35    0.36     0.83
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.0     12.1                   17.4     13.8       21.8    21.8     26.1
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.2      1.5                    0.9      0.5        0.4     0.4     10.7
Delay (s)                         10.3     13.7                   18.3     14.2       22.2    22.2     36.9
Level of Service                     B        B                      B        B          C       C        D
Approach Delay (s)                         13.5                   17.8                        30.1                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  B                      B                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           18.8      HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.70
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           82.2      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 65.3%       ICU Level of Service                       C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                              4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         840     870     1025     325       255      710
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      4.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.97    0.91     0.97    1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  0.96    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3341    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3341    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       913     946    1114      353       277      772
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   43    368         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               1229     219     1114     353       277      772
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            36.0       36.0     33.6    50.3       12.7    96.3
Effective Green, g (s)           36.0       36.0     33.6    50.3       12.7    96.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.37       0.37     0.35    0.52       0.13    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                5.0         5.0     4.0      5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1249         539    1198      973        467    1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.37               c0.32    0.19       0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.15                                c0.49
v/c Ratio                           0.98    0.41     0.93    0.36       0.59     0.49
Uniform Delay, d1                   29.9    22.3     30.2    13.6       39.4      0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               22.0     2.3     12.5     0.2        2.0      1.1
Delay (s)                           51.9    24.5     42.7    13.8       41.4      1.1
Level of Service                       D       C        D       B          D        A
Approach Delay (s)                  43.2                     35.7       11.7
Approach LOS                           D                        D          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             33.2          HCM Level of Service            C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             96.3       Sum of lost time (s)              9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   81.0%        ICU Level of Service               D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                          5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Rd
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                              3/31/2010



Movement                            EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       300       30      100     300     30      185
Sign Control                        Free                      Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)               326       33     109      326     33     201
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                 359            886      342
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                     359            886      342
tC, single (s)                                          4.1            6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                  2.2            3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                                         91             89       71
cM capacity (veh/h)                                   1200            287      700
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     WB 2     NB 1   NB 2
Volume Total                         359      109      326      33    201
Volume Left                             0     109         0     33      0
Volume Right                           33        0        0      0    201
cSH                                 1700    1200     1700      287    700
Volume to Capacity                  0.21     0.09     0.19    0.11   0.29
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        7        0     10     30
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      8.3      0.0   19.2   12.2
Lane LOS                                         A               C      B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       2.1            13.2
Approach LOS                                                     B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           3.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    36.5%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                   4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      50       245     25     405        0        0       0     0     10       0      35
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                 Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                   0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      54      266       27    440        0         0      0      0     11      0       38
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               440                      321                       720    682    188    682     815     440
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   440                      321                       720    682    188    682     815     440
tC, single (s)                        4.1                      4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2    7.1     6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0    3.3    3.5     4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                        98                      100    100    100     97     100      94
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1120                      1239                      317    364    855    358     305     617
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      SB 1
Volume Total                         321      467       49
Volume Left                             0       27      11
Volume Right                         266         0      38
cSH                                 1700    1239       531
Volume to Capacity                  0.19     0.02     0.09
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        2       8
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      0.7    12.5
Lane LOS                                         A       B
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       0.7    12.5
Approach LOS                                             B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    51.8%       ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                  Page 6
PM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                     4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        50      10        0       0      10       10      390       0     25      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                54      11        0       0      11       11      424       0     27       0       0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                22                       11                       136    141      11    163      136      16
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   22                       11                        136    141     11     163      136      16
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       97                      100                        48    100      97    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1594                     1608                       814    724    1070    761      729    1063
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          65       22     451
Volume Left                           54        0     424
Volume Right                           0       11      27
cSH                                 1594    1700      825
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.01    0.55
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 3        0      84
Control Delay (s)                    6.2      0.0    14.5
Lane LOS                               A                B
Approach Delay (s)                   6.2      0.0    14.5
Approach LOS                                            B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         12.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   39.8%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 7
PM Peak Period                                                                                          8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
No-Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                             4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL       WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR    SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         105     155     185       50       195      310        400      640      105      95     395      105
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0     5.0                 5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00       0.97     0.95            0.97     0.95
Frt                                          1.00    0.85               1.00     0.85       1.00     0.98            1.00     0.97
Flt Protected                                0.98    1.00               0.99     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1826    1583               1844     1583       3433     3464            3433     3428
Flt Permitted                                0.60    1.00               0.81     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1126    1583               1512     1583       3433     3464            3433     3428
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       114     168     201       54       212      337        435      696     114     103      429     114
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0    146         0          0    187            0      12       0        0      23        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    282       55        0      266      150        435      798        0    103      520         0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm               Perm        Prot                     Prot
Protected Phases                               4                           8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                       4                4       8                   8
Actuated Green, G (s)                        19.3    19.3               19.3     19.3       13.6     32.0            4.6      23.0
Effective Green, g (s)                       19.3    19.3               19.3     19.3       13.6     32.0            4.6      23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                           0.28    0.28               0.28     0.28       0.19     0.46           0.07     0.33
Clearance Time (s)                            5.0     5.0                5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0            4.0       5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                         3.0     3.0                3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0            3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                            311     437               417      437        668     1586            226      1128
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                             c0.13    c0.23           0.03      0.15
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.25    0.04               0.18     0.09
v/c Ratio                                    0.91    0.13               0.64     0.34       0.65     0.50           0.46     0.46
Uniform Delay, d1                            24.4    19.0               22.2     20.2       26.0     13.4           31.4     18.5
Progression Factor                           1.00    1.00               1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00           1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                        28.3     0.1                3.2      0.5        2.3      1.1            1.5      1.4
Delay (s)                                    52.7    19.1               25.4     20.7       28.2     14.5           32.9     19.9
Level of Service                                D       B                  C        C          C        B              C        B
Approach Delay (s)                           38.7                       22.8                         19.3                    22.0
Approach LOS                                    D                          C                            B                       C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.7          HCM Level of Service                       C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             69.9       Sum of lost time (s)                         9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   68.5%        ICU Level of Service                          C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 8
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3100            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       912             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1887            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1887            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                61.5            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    30.7            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         D

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3100              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               60                vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3100           60                       vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 861            17                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3565           67                       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3565        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3565         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3565         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  3498         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             67           2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   29.5             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.304
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 58.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3036              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               671               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             1400              ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3036           671                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.90           0.90
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 843            186                      v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3491           749                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   3491    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         4240             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         4240             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                29.4   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.466
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 54.3     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 54.3     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3707            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       1090            v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 2257            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 2257            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                54.2            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    41.6            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         E

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3707              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               557               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      716               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3707           557           716         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 1125           170           218         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           4656           686           882         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   4656        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      4656         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             4656         4400                  Yes
      12
     v    = v - v                  3970         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             686          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   41.6             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence F

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.360
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.7      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            3151              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               716               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      557               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         3151           716           557        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82          0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 961            218           170        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3977           882           686        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   3977    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         4859             4700                 Yes
      FO
     v                         4859             4600                 Yes
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                42.0   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               F

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.810
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 46.4     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 46.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     3866            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       1137            v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 2354            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 2354            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                                mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                                    pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         F

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2275            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       669             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1385            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1385            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    22.0            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2275              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               888               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      309               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2275           888           309         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 669            261           91          v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2770           1055          367         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2770        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2770         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2770         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1715         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             1055         2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   24.9             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.393
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.0      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.0     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1387              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               309               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      888               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1387           309           888        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.85           0.85          0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 408            91            261        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1689           367           1055       pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1689    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2056             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2056             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                18.8   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.315
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1696            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       499             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1033            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1033            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    16.4            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1696              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               532               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             800               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1696           532                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 606            190                      v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2508           764                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2508        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2508         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2508         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1744         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             764          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   18.6             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.367
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1164              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               102               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1164           102                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.70           0.70
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 416            36                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1721           146                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1721    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         1867             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         1867             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                15.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.283
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 58.5     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 58.5     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    AM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1268            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       373             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 772             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 772             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    12.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                       4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         225    1245      100       215     740      235          95     175      190    480      185      135
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95               1.00    0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.99               1.00    1.00     0.85       1.00     0.92            1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3500               1770    3539     1583       1770     3262            3433     1745
Flt Permitted                        0.35    1.00              0.10     1.00     1.00       0.54     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     648   3500                186    3539     1583       1000     3262            3433     1745
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       245   1353      109       234      804      255        103      190     207     522      201     147
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       6       0          0        0     119           0     116       0        0       30       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                245    1456        0       234     804      136        103      281        0    522      318         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               36.1    36.1               46.1    46.1      46.1       16.5    13.3             13.0     23.1
Effective Green, g (s)              36.1    36.1               46.1    46.1      46.1       16.5    13.3             13.0     23.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.42     0.42               0.53   0.53      0.53       0.19    0.15             0.15     0.27
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0              4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0                3.0    3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   271    1462                209    1888       845        219     502              517      467
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.42             c0.08    0.23                 0.02    0.09            c0.15    c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.38                      c0.52              0.09       0.07
v/c Ratio                           0.90    1.00                1.12   0.43      0.16       0.47    0.56             1.01     0.68
Uniform Delay, d1                   23.5    25.1                21.5   12.2      10.3       30.2    33.8             36.7     28.3
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               34.7    22.5               98.1     0.7       0.4        1.6     1.4             42.0      4.1
Delay (s)                           58.2    47.6              119.6    12.9      10.7       31.8    35.2             78.7     32.4
Level of Service                       E       D                   F      B         B          C       D                E        C
Approach Delay (s)                          49.1                       31.8                         34.5                      60.2
Approach LOS                                   D                          C                            C                         E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             44.5         HCM Level of Service                        D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             86.4         Sum of lost time (s)                       8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   89.1%          ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                              4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0   1200      700      205    1090        0         0      0      0     150       0     185
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                           0.91    1.00     0.97     0.95                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                               1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                               1.00    1.00     0.15     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583       526    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0   1304      761      223    1185        0         0      0      0     163       0     201
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     348         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0      60
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0   1304     413       223    1185        0         0      0      0      81      82     141
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                              6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      40.1     40.1     52.2     52.2                                   11.7    11.7     11.7
Effective Green, g (s)                     40.1     40.1     52.2     52.2                                   11.7    11.7     11.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.54     0.54     0.71     0.71                                   0.16    0.16     0.16
Clearance Time (s)                          5.0      5.0       5.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                       3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2759      859      651    2500                                     266     266     251
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.26              0.03    c0.33
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.26     0.21                                            0.05    0.05    c0.09
v/c Ratio                                  0.47     0.48     0.34     0.47                                   0.30    0.31     0.56
Uniform Delay, d1                          10.4     10.5       4.9     4.8                                   27.5    27.5     28.7
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.6      1.9       0.3     0.6                                    0.7     0.7      2.9
Delay (s)                                  11.0     12.4       5.2     5.4                                   28.2    28.2     31.6
Level of Service                              B        B         A       A                                      C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                         11.5                        5.4                      0.0                  30.1
Approach LOS                                  B                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            11.0        HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.49
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            73.9        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  72.2%         ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                               4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      180     1315        0       0   1000     310        355         0    445        0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00    0.85       1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.16     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  582    3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    196    1429        0       0   1087      337        386        0     484       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0       0     213           0       0       12      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             196     1429        0       0   1087     124        193      193     472        0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                     Perm       Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                       8                           2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8          2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            43.4      43.4                   30.4     30.4       29.1    29.1     29.1
Effective Green, g (s)           43.4      43.4                   30.4     30.4       29.1    29.1     29.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.53      0.53                    0.37    0.37       0.35    0.35     0.35
Clearance Time (s)                 5.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                583     1862                    2361      583        593     593      558
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.03    c0.40                    0.17
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.14                                     0.08       0.11    0.11    c0.30
v/c Ratio                         0.34     0.77                   0.46     0.21       0.33    0.33     0.85
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.8     15.5                   19.8     17.9       19.5    19.5     24.6
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.3      3.1                    0.6      0.8        0.3     0.3     11.3
Delay (s)                         11.1     18.6                   20.5     18.7       19.8    19.8     35.9
Level of Service                     B        B                      C        B          B       B        D
Approach Delay (s)                         17.7                   20.0                        28.8                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  B                      C                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           21.0      HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.80
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           82.5      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 72.2%       ICU Level of Service                       C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                        4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         780     985      485     175       285      885
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.97    0.91     0.97    1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  0.95    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3315    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3315    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       848   1071       527     190       310      962
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   80    323         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               1229     287      527     190       310      962
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            39.1       39.1     16.5    34.0       12.5    83.1
Effective Green, g (s)           39.1       39.1     16.5    34.0       12.5    83.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.47       0.47     0.20    0.41       0.15    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                5.0         5.0      5.0     5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1560         678      682     762        532    1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.37                0.15    0.10       0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.20                                c0.61
v/c Ratio                           0.79    0.42     0.77    0.25       0.58     0.61
Uniform Delay, d1                   18.5    14.5     31.5    16.2       32.9      0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                4.1     1.9      5.4     0.2        1.6      1.7
Delay (s)                           22.6    16.5     37.0    16.3       34.5      1.7
Level of Service                       C       B        D       B          C        A
Approach Delay (s)                  20.7                     31.5        9.7
Approach LOS                           C                        C          A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             19.1          HCM Level of Service            B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.70
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             83.1       Sum of lost time (s)              5.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   66.8%        ICU Level of Service               C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                          5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                         12/15/2009



Movement                            EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        40     280        60     150    250       10
Sign Control                        Free                      Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                43     304        65     163    272       11
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                 348            489      196
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                     348            489      196
tC, single (s)                                          4.1            6.4      6.3
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                  2.2            3.5      3.4
p0 queue free %                                         95             47       99
cM capacity (veh/h)                                   1211            509      833
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                         348      228      272      11
Volume Left                             0       65     272       0
Volume Right                         304         0       0      11
cSH                                 1700    1211       509     833
Volume to Capacity                  0.20     0.05     0.53    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        4      78       1
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      2.7    19.9     9.4
Lane LOS                                         A       C       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       2.7    19.5
Approach LOS                                             C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           7.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    54.4%       ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
%user_name%                                                                                                              Page 1
AM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                         12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      50      150      0      10       60
Sign Control                                Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                        0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      54      163       0     11       65
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               163                             217      163
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   163                             217      163
tC, single (s)                        4.1                             6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                              99       93
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1416                             771      882
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          54      163      76
Volume Left                            0        0      11
Volume Right                           0        0      65
cSH                                 1700    1700      864
Volume to Capacity                  0.03     0.10    0.09
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0        0       7
Control Delay (s)                    0.0      0.0     9.6
Lane LOS                                                A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      0.0     9.6
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          2.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   18.8%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
%user_name%                                                                                                              Page 2
AM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        55       5        0       0      10       10      140      20     10      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                60       5        0       0      11       11      152      22     11       0       0       0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                22                        5                       141    147       5    163      141      16
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   22                         5                       141    147       5    163      141      16
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       96                      100                        81     97      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1594                     1616                       805    717    1078    753      722    1063
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          65       22     185
Volume Left                           60        0     152
Volume Right                           0       11      11
cSH                                 1594    1700      805
Volume to Capacity                  0.04     0.01    0.23
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 3        0      22
Control Delay (s)                    6.8      0.0    10.8
Lane LOS                               A                B
Approach Delay (s)                   6.8      0.0    10.8
Approach LOS                                            B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          9.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   26.1%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
%user_name%                                                                                                                  Page 3
AM Peak Period                                                                                      8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                 4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           30     315     480       30     205      25        120     200     30      25     760      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900     1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0        4.0     5.0            4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00       0.97    0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                                  1.00    1.00    0.85     1.00    1.00    0.85       1.00    0.98           1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                        0.95   1.00     1.00     0.95   1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863    1583     1770    1863    1583       3433    3469           3433    3519
Flt Permitted                        0.55    1.00    1.00     0.38    1.00    1.00       0.95    1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   1029    1863    1583       714   1863    1583       3433    3469           3433    3519
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        33     342     522       33     223      27        130     217     33      27     826       33
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0       0     112        0       0      18          0      11      0       0        3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  33    342     410        33    223        9       130     239       0      27    856         0
Turn Type                           Perm            Perm     Perm            Perm        Prot                   Prot
Protected Phases                               4                        8                   5      2               1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                4       8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)               25.1    25.1     25.1    25.1    25.1     25.1        5.3    39.1           1.4     35.2
Effective Green, g (s)              25.1    25.1     25.1    25.1    25.1     25.1        5.3    39.1           1.4     35.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.32    0.32     0.32    0.32    0.32     0.32       0.07    0.49          0.02     0.44
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0       4.0     5.0           4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0           3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   324     587      499     225     587      499       229    1704             60    1556
v/s Ratio Prot                              0.18                     0.12               c0.04   c0.07          0.01    c0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.03            c0.26    0.05             0.01
v/c Ratio                           0.10    0.58     0.82    0.15    0.38     0.02       0.57    0.14          0.45     0.55
Uniform Delay, d1                   19.3    22.9     25.2    19.6    21.2     18.8       36.0    11.1          38.7     16.4
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00          1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1     1.5     10.4     0.3     0.4      0.0        3.2     0.2           5.3      1.4
Delay (s)                           19.4    24.3     35.6    19.9    21.6     18.8       39.2    11.2          44.0     17.8
Level of Service                       B       C        D       B       C        B          D       B             D        B
Approach Delay (s)                          30.7                     21.1                        20.8                   18.6
Approach LOS                                   C                        C                           C                      B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             23.7       HCM Level of Service                     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.69
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             79.6       Sum of lost time (s)                   19.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   67.5%        ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 8
AM Peak Period                                                                                  9: Dillon Dr & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                          85       40      340       0      225     175         0      0      0      0     280     125
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900    1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0                        5.0                                           5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00                      1.00                                           1.00
Frt                                          0.90                      0.94                                           0.96
Flt Protected                                0.99                      1.00                                           1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1663                      1716                                           1785
Flt Permitted                               0.85                       1.00                                           1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1431                      1716                                           1785
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        92      43      370        0     245     190         0      0      0      0     304     136
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      94        0        0      26       0         0      0      0      0      20       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    411         0        0    409        0         0      0      0      0     420       0
Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%      2%       2%       2%      2%      7%        2%     2%     2%     2%      2%      2%
Turn Type                           Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                                4                         8                                              6
Permitted Phases                       4                         8
Actuated Green, G (s)                        46.3                     46.3                                            23.4
Effective Green, g (s)                       46.3                     46.3                                            23.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                           0.58                     0.58                                            0.29
Clearance Time (s)                            5.0                      5.0                                             5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                          3.0                      3.0                                             3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                            831                      997                                             524
v/s Ratio Prot                                                        0.24                                           c0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                              c0.29
v/c Ratio                                    0.49                     0.41                                            0.80
Uniform Delay, d1                             9.8                      9.2                                            26.0
Progression Factor                           1.00                     1.00                                            1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                         2.1                      1.2                                             8.6
Delay (s)                                    11.9                     10.4                                            34.6
Level of Service                                B                        B                                               C
Approach Delay (s)                           11.9                     10.4                       0.0                  34.6
Approach LOS                                    B                        B                         A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              18.7       HCM Level of Service                   B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              79.7       Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    85.1%        ICU Level of Service                    E
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
%user_name%                                                                                                                  Page 4
AM Peak Period                                                                         10: Dillon Dr & NB Frontage Rd
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                    12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        40       0      400     130      0        0
Sign Control                        Stop                     Free   Free
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                43       0     435      141      0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                  None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1011       0        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1011       0         0
tC, single (s)                       6.4     6.2       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                       78     100       73
cM capacity (veh/h)                  194    1085     1623
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    NB 1     NB 2
Volume Total                          43     435      141
Volume Left                           43     435        0
Volume Right                           0       0        0
cSH                                  194    1623     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.22    0.27     0.08
Queue Length 95th (ft)                21      27        0
Control Delay (s)                   28.8     8.0      0.0
Lane LOS                               D       A
Approach Delay (s)                  28.8     6.1
Approach LOS                           D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          7.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   32.2%       ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
%user_name%                                                                                                         Page 5
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1510            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       444             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 919             pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 919             pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    14.6            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:               NWS
Agency/Co.:            SEH, Inc.
Date performed:        11/25/2008
Analysis time period:  PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel: I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:              Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:         Proposed Action (Year 2035)
Description: Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Inter
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1510              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________

Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               154               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             600               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________
Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft
____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________
Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1510           154                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 460            47                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1906           189                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   1906        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      1906         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             1906         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1717         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             189          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   15.2             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.315
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.8      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1363              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               468               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             1400              ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1363           468                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 416            143                      v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1720           574                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1720    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2294             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2294             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                14.3   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.234
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 59.6     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 59.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     1831            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       503             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1041            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1041            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    16.5            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         B

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1831              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               336               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             300               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      855               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Downstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1831           336           855         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 498            91            232         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2060           369           939         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   2060        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      2060         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             2060         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  1691         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             369          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   19.3             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence B

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.331
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 57.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Southbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1495              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               855               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             150               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      336               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1495           855           336        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.92           0.92          0.92
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 406            232           91         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           1682           939           369        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   1682    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2621             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2621             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                24.5   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.361
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 56.7     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.7     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Southbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2351            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       691             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1431            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1431            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    22.7            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 South of Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2846            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       782             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1618            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1618            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                62.9            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    25.7            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Boulevard
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2916              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               773               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             350               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent ramp                      440               vph
Position of adjacent ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent ramp                        On
Distance to adjacent ramp                    2000              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2916           773           440         vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 801            212           121         v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2           %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0           %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %     0.00     %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi    0.00     mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3317           858           488         pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3317        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3317         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3317         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  2459         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             858          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   29.6             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence D

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.375
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.4      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.4     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Eagleridge Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2143              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               440               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             400               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    Yes
Volume on adjacent Ramp                      773               vph
Position of adjacent Ramp                    Upstream
Type of adjacent Ramp                        Off
Distance to adjacent Ramp                    2600              ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2143           440           773        vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.91           0.91          0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 589            121           212        v
Trucks and buses                        7              2             2          %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0             0          %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level         Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5           1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2           1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.990         0.990
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00          1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2437           488           858        pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   2437    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2925             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2925             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                25.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.358
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 56.8     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 Between Eagleridge-Dillon
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2583            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.91
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       710             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1469            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1469            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    23.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Diverge Analysis______________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/25/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound off Ramp
Junction:                Dillon Dr
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Diverge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            2583              vph

_________________________________Off Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-Flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               607               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             800               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent ramp
Type of adjacent ramp
Distance to adjacent ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         2583           607                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 788            185                      v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                              0.00      %    0.00    %             %
     Length                             0.00      mi   0.00    mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           3260           744                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Diverge Areas_______________________
                      L   =                 (Equation 25-8 or 25-9)
                       EQ
                      P   =       1.000     Using Equation        0
                       FD
                      v   = v     + (v - v ) P =   3260        pc/h
                       12     R       F   R   FD
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                                   Actual       Maximum               LOS F?
     v    = v                      3260         4700                  No
      Fi     F
     v                             3260         4400                  No
      12
     v    = v - v                  2516         4700                  No
      FO     F    R
     v                             744          2100                  No
      R
_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________

Density,               D = 4.252 + 0.0086 v - 0.009 L     =   25.1             pc/mi/ln
                        R                  12          D
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________

Intermediate speed variable,                         D     = 0.365
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,             S     = 56.6      mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                     S     =    N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 56.6     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                   Page 2
                    HCS2000: Ramps and Ramp Junctions Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________________Merge Analysis________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency/Co.:              SEH, Inc.
Date performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis time period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Dir of Travel:   I-25 Northbound on Ramp
Junction:                Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
__________________________________Freeway Data_________________________________
Type of analysis                             Merge
Number of lanes in freeway                   2
Free-flow speed on freeway                   65.0              mph
Volume on freeway                            1976              vph

__________________________________On Ramp Data_________________________________
Side of freeway                              Right
Number of lanes in ramp                      1
Free-flow speed on ramp                      45.0              mph
Volume on ramp                               123               vph
Length of first accel/decel lane             700               ft
Length of second accel/decel lane                              ft

_________________________Adjacent Ramp Data (if one exists)____________________

Does adjacent ramp exist?                    No
Volume on adjacent Ramp                                        vph
Position of adjacent Ramp
Type of adjacent Ramp
Distance to adjacent Ramp                                      ft

____________________Conversion to pc/h Under Base Conditions___________________

Junction Components                     Freeway        Ramp          Adjacent
                                                                     Ramp
Volume, V (vph)                         1976           123                      vph
Peak-hour factor, PHF                   0.82           0.82
Peak 15-min volume, v15                 602            38                       v
Trucks and buses                        7              1                        %
Recreational vehicles                   0              0                        %
Terrain type:                           Level          Level
     Grade                                        %            %             %
     Length                                       mi           mi            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                1.5            1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER            1.2            1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV           0.966          0.995
Driver population factor, fP            1.00           1.00
Flow rate, vp                           2494           151                      pcph




                                           Page 1
_________________________Estimation of V12 Merge Areas_________________________
                  L   =                    (Equation 25-2 or 25-3)
                   EQ
                  P   =       1.000        Using Equation        0
                   FM
                  v   = v     (P   ) =   2494    pc/h
                   12     F     FM
_______________________________Capacity Checks_________________________________

                               Actual           Maximum              LOS F?
     v                         2645             4700                 No
      FO
     v                         2645             4600                 No
      R12

_________________Level of Service Determination (if not F)_____________________
Density, D = 5.475 + 0.00734 v + 0.0078 v    - 0.00627 L   =                21.6   pc/mi/ln
          R                   R           12             A
Level of service for ramp-freeway junction areas of influence               C

_____________________________Speed Estimation__________________________________
Intermediate speed variable,                        M      = 0.313
                                                       S
Space mean speed in ramp influence area,            S      = 57.8     mph
                                                       R
Space mean speed in outer lanes,                    S      =   N/A    mph
                                                       0
Space mean speed for all vehicles,           S = 57.8     mph
_______________________________________________________________________________




                                                 Page 2
                 HCS2000:   Basic Freeway Segments Release 4.1f

SEH, Inc.
Description:   Dillon/Platteville and I-25 Interchange Improvements
               Proposed Action (Year 2035)
_________________________Operational Analysis__________________________________

Analyst:                 NWS
Agency or Company:       SEH, Inc.
Date Performed:          11/24/2008
Analysis Time Period:    PM Peak Period
Freeway/Direction:       I - 25 Northbound
From/To:                 North of Platteville Blvd
Jurisdiction:
Analysis Year:           2035
_________________________Flow Inputs and Adjustments___________________________
Volume, V                                     2105            veh/h
Peak-hour factor, PHF                         0.85
Peak 15-min volume, v15                       619             v
Trucks and buses                              7               %
Recreational vehicles                         0               %
Terrain type:                                 Level
    Grade                                     0.00            %
    Segment length                            0.00            mi
Trucks and buses PCE, ET                      1.5
Recreational vehicle PCE, ER                  1.2
Heavy vehicle adjustment, fHV                 0.966
Driver population factor, fp                  1.00
Flow rate, vp                                 1282            pc/h/ln

_________________________Speed Inputs and Adjustments__________________________

Lane width                                    12.0            ft
Right-shoulder lateral clearance              6.0             ft
Interchange density                           1.00            interchange/mi
Number of lanes, N                            2
Free-flow speed:                              Base
     FFS or BFFS                              70.0            mi/h
Lane width adjustment, fLW                    0.0             mi/h
Lateral clearance adjustment, fLC             0.0             mi/h
Interchange density adjustment, fID           2.5             mi/h
Number of lanes adjustment, fN                4.5             mi/h
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
                                              Urban Freeway

_________________________LOS and Performance Measures__________________________
Flow rate, vp                                 1282            pc/h/ln
Free-flow speed, FFS                          63.0            mi/h
Average passenger-car speed, S                63.0            mi/h
Number of lanes, N                            2
Density, D                                    20.3            pc/mi/ln
Level of service, LOS                         C

  Overall results are not computed when free-flow speed is less than 55 mph.




                                            Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                                1: Eagleridge Blvd & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                       4/23/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         170     730      130      200      900      440        115      230      200    395      185      130
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900   1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0                4.0      5.0      5.0        4.0      5.0             4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    0.95              1.00     0.95     1.00       1.00     0.95            0.97     1.00
Frt                                  1.00    0.98              1.00     1.00     0.85       1.00     0.93            1.00     0.94
Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00              0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    3459              1770     3539     1583       1770     3293            3433     1748
Flt Permitted                        0.28    1.00              0.18     1.00     1.00       0.42     1.00            0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                     526   3459                343    3539     1583         780    3293            3433     1748
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       185     793     141       217      978      478        125      250     217     429      201     141
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      16       0          0        0    206            0    151        0        0      30        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                185     918        0      217      978      272        125      316        0    429      312         0
Turn Type                           Perm                     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt                      Prot
Protected Phases                               4                   3       8                    5       2                1       6
Permitted Phases                        4                          8                 8          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               38.1    38.1               47.1    47.1      47.1       17.3    13.3             11.0     20.3
Effective Green, g (s)              38.1    38.1               47.1    47.1      47.1       17.3    13.3             11.0     20.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.45     0.45              0.55    0.55      0.55       0.20    0.16             0.13     0.24
Clearance Time (s)                    5.0     5.0                4.0    5.0        5.0        4.0     5.0              4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                3.0      3.0               3.0     3.0       3.0        3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   235    1543                273    1952       873        204     513              442      416
v/s Ratio Prot                               0.27             c0.05    0.28                 0.03    0.10            c0.12    c0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                      0.35                      c0.39              0.17       0.10
v/c Ratio                           0.79    0.60               0.79    0.50      0.31       0.61    0.62             0.97     0.75
Uniform Delay, d1                   20.2    17.8               13.3    11.9      10.4       30.0    33.7             37.0     30.2
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00               1.00    1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               22.9     1.7               14.7     0.9       0.9        5.4     2.2             35.1      7.5
Delay (s)                           43.1    19.5               27.9    12.8      11.3       35.4    35.9             72.1     37.7
Level of Service                       D       B                  C       B         B          D       D                E        D
Approach Delay (s)                          23.4                       14.3                         35.8                      56.8
Approach LOS                                   C                          B                            D                         E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             27.7         HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.76
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             85.4         Sum of lost time (s)                       8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   74.5%          ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                           2: Eagleridge Blvd & SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                              4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0     990     290      410    1500        0         0      0      0     225       0     110
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900   1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                          5.0     5.0       4.0     5.0                                     5.0     5.0     5.0
Lane Util. Factor                           0.91    1.00     0.97     0.95                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Frt                                         1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00                                    1.00    1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                               1.00    1.00     0.95     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                          5085    1583      3433    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Flt Permitted                               1.00    1.00     0.21     1.00                                    0.95    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                          5085    1583       748    3539                                    1681    1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF               0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        0   1076      315      446    1630        0         0      0      0     245       0     120
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0       0     140         0       0       0         0      0      0       0       0      26
Lane Group Flow (vph)                  0   1076     175       446    1630        0         0      0      0     122     123      94
Turn Type                                          Perm     pm+pt                                            Perm            Perm
Protected Phases                              4                  3      8                                               6
Permitted Phases                                       4         8                                              6                6
Actuated Green, G (s)                      42.3     42.3     55.1     55.1                                   11.0    11.0     11.0
Effective Green, g (s)                     42.3     42.3     55.1     55.1                                   11.0    11.0     11.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                         0.56     0.56     0.72     0.72                                   0.14    0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                          5.0      5.0       4.0     5.0                                    5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                       3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0                                    3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                         2826      880      852    2562                                     243     243     229
v/s Ratio Prot                             0.21              0.06    c0.46
v/s Ratio Perm                                      0.11     0.32                                            0.07    0.07     0.06
v/c Ratio                                  0.38     0.20     0.52     0.64                                   0.50    0.51     0.41
Uniform Delay, d1                           9.5      8.4       4.3     5.4                                   30.0    30.0     29.6
Progression Factor                         1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00                                   1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                       0.4      0.5       0.6     1.2                                    1.6     1.7      1.2
Delay (s)                                   9.9      8.9       4.8     6.6                                   31.7    31.7     30.8
Level of Service                              A        A         A       A                                      C       C        C
Approach Delay (s)                          9.7                        6.2                      0.0                  31.4
Approach LOS                                  A                          A                        A                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             9.9        HCM Level of Service                   A
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.61
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            76.1        Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  65.4%         ICU Level of Service                   C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                         3: Eagleridge Blvd & NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                               4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT     WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        65    1125        0       0   1515      275        300        0     420       0      0        0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900     1900    1900   1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                4.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97     0.95                    0.86    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Frt                               1.00     1.00                    1.00    0.85       1.00     1.00    0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3433     3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Flt Permitted                     0.11     1.00                    1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  386    3539                    6408    1583       1681     1681    1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                     71    1223        0       0   1647      299        326        0     457       0       0       0
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0        0       0       0       0     173           0       0       19      0       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               71    1223        0       0   1647     126        163      163     438        0       0       0
Turn Type                       pm+pt                                     Perm       Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                     7       4                       8                           2
Permitted Phases                     4                                         8          2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            42.4      42.4                   33.4     33.4       26.9    26.9     26.9
Effective Green, g (s)           42.4      42.4                   33.4     33.4       26.9    26.9     26.9
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.53      0.53                    0.42    0.42       0.34    0.34     0.34
Clearance Time (s)                 4.0      5.0                     5.0      5.0        5.0     5.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                     3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                399     1892                    2699      667        570     570      537
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.35                    0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.08                                     0.08       0.10    0.10    c0.28
v/c Ratio                         0.18     0.65                   0.61     0.19       0.29    0.29     0.82
Uniform Delay, d1                 10.5     13.1                   17.9     14.4       19.2    19.2     23.9
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00                   1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.2      1.7                    1.0      0.6        0.3     0.3      9.3
Delay (s)                         10.7     14.8                   18.9     15.1       19.5    19.5     33.2
Level of Service                     B        B                      B        B          B       B        C
Approach Delay (s)                         14.6                   18.3                        27.5                      0.0
Approach LOS                                  B                      B                           C                        A
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           18.9      HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.71
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           79.3      Sum of lost time (s)                     10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 65.4%       ICU Level of Service                       C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                             4: Eagleridge Blvd & Dillon Dr
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                        4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         780     805     1055     330       260      695
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                   5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    0.97    0.91     0.97    1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                  0.96    0.85     1.00    1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                   3341    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                        0.97    1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   3341    1441     3433    1863      3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                       848     875    1147      359       283      755
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   47    357         0       0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)               1134     185     1147     359       283      755
Turn Type                                   Perm      Prot                      Free
Protected Phases                       4                 5      2          6
Permitted Phases                                4                               Free
Actuated Green, G (s)            29.0       29.0     29.0    46.0       12.0    85.0
Effective Green, g (s)           29.0       29.0     29.0    46.0       12.0    85.0
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.34       0.34     0.34     0.54      0.14    1.00
Clearance Time (s)                5.0         5.0     5.0      5.0        5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)             3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)              1140         492    1171     1008        500    1583
v/s Ratio Prot                  c0.34               c0.33     0.19      0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.13                                c0.48
v/c Ratio                           0.99    0.38     0.98    0.36       0.57     0.48
Uniform Delay, d1                   27.9    21.2     27.7    11.1       34.1      0.0
Progression Factor                  1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               25.5     2.2     21.2     0.2        1.5      1.0
Delay (s)                           53.4    23.3     48.9    11.3       35.5      1.0
Level of Service                       D       C        D       B          D        A
Approach Delay (s)                  43.9                     39.9       10.4
Approach LOS                           D                        D          B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             34.4          HCM Level of Service            C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.87
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             85.0       Sum of lost time (s)             10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   80.5%        ICU Level of Service               D
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                              Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                          5: Platteville Blvd & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                         12/15/2009



Movement                            EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT    NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        30     300        80     190    185        5
Sign Control                        Free                      Free   Stop
Grade                                0%                        0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                33     326        87     207    201        5
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                         None                      None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                                 359            576      196
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                                     359            576      196
tC, single (s)                                          4.1            6.4      6.3
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                                  2.2            3.5      3.4
p0 queue free %                                         93             55       99
cM capacity (veh/h)                                   1200            444      833
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1      NB 1    NB 2
Volume Total                         359      293      201       5
Volume Left                             0       87     201       0
Volume Right                         326         0       0       5
cSH                                 1700    1200       444     833
Volume to Capacity                  0.21     0.07     0.45    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  0        6      58       0
Control Delay (s)                     0.0      2.9    19.6     9.3
Lane LOS                                         A       C       A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0       2.9    19.4
Approach LOS                                             C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           5.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    54.8%       ICU Level of Service                 A
Analysis Period (min)                                    15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                Page 1
PM Peak Period                                                                       6: Platteville Blvd & I-25 SB off Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                         12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR    SBL      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0      35      140      0      10      130
Sign Control                                Free     Free           Stop
Grade                                        0%       0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0      38      152       0     11     141
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               152                             190      152
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   152                             190      152
tC, single (s)                        4.1                             6.4      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                             3.5      3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                              99       84
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1429                             799      894
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                          38      152     152
Volume Left                            0        0      11
Volume Right                           0        0     141
cSH                                 1700    1700      886
Volume to Capacity                  0.02     0.09    0.17
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0        0      15
Control Delay (s)                    0.0      0.0     9.9
Lane LOS                                                A
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0      0.0     9.9
Approach LOS                                            A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          4.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   22.6%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                Page 2
PM Peak Period                                                                       7: Platteville Blvd & I-25 NB on Ramp
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                             12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        35      10        0       0      10       10      130      15     10      0        0       0
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                38      11        0       0      11       11      141      16     11       0       0       0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume                22                       11                       103    109      11    122      103      16
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   22                       11                        103    109     11     122      103      16
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5    6.2     7.1      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5    4.0     3.3    3.5      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       98                      100                        84     98      99    100      100     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1594                     1608                       861    763    1070    815      768    1063
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1     NB 1
Volume Total                          49       22     168
Volume Left                           38        0     141
Volume Right                           0       11      11
cSH                                 1594    1700      861
Volume to Capacity                  0.02     0.01    0.20
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 2        0      18
Control Delay (s)                    5.7      0.0    10.2
Lane LOS                               A                B
Approach Delay (s)                   5.7      0.0    10.2
Approach LOS                                            B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          8.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   24.4%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                    Page 3
PM Peak Period                                                                                      8: Dillon Dr & Elizabeth St
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                                 4/23/2009



Movement                            EBL   EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       105     195     160       105     380        20      330      610     105      20    295      105
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900     1900    1900      1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 4.0     5.0     5.0       4.0     5.0      5.0       4.0      5.0            4.0      5.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00      0.97     0.95           0.97    0.95
Frt                               1.00     1.00    0.85      1.00    1.00     0.85      1.00     0.98           1.00    0.96
Flt Protected                     0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00            0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770     1863    1583      1770    1863     1583      3433     3461           3433    3400
Flt Permitted                     0.22     1.00    1.00      0.57    1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00           0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  411    1863    1583      1059    1863     1583      3433     3461           3433    3400
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                    114      212     174       114     413       22       359      663    114      22     321     114
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0       0     125         0       0       16         0       14      0       0      36        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              114     212       49      114     413         6      359      763       0      22    399         0
Turn Type                       pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt             Perm       Prot                    Prot
Protected Phases                      7      4                  3       8                  5       2               1       6
Permitted Phases                      4                4        8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)             27.3    22.8     22.8     25.9     22.1    22.1       12.7     34.6           1.4    23.3
Effective Green, g (s)            27.3    22.8     22.8     25.9     22.1    22.1       12.7     34.6           1.4    23.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.34    0.28     0.28     0.32     0.27    0.27       0.16     0.43          0.02    0.29
Clearance Time (s)                  4.0     5.0      5.0      4.0      5.0     5.0        4.0     5.0           4.0      5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0           3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 215     527      448      374      511     434        541    1486             60     983
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.03    0.11               0.01   c0.22              c0.10    c0.22          0.01    0.12
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.15             0.03     0.08             0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.53    0.40     0.11      0.30    0.81    0.01       0.66     0.51          0.37    0.41
Uniform Delay, d1                 20.0    23.4     21.4      19.9    27.3    21.3       31.9     16.8          39.2    23.1
Progression Factor                1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00          1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              2.5     0.5      0.1       0.5     9.1     0.0        3.1      1.3           3.8     1.2
Delay (s)                         22.5    23.9     21.5      20.3    36.4    21.3       35.0     18.1          42.9    24.3
Level of Service                     C       C        C         C       D       C          D        B             D       C
Approach Delay (s)                        22.8                       32.5                        23.4                  25.2
Approach LOS                                 C                          C                           C                     C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                           25.5        HCM Level of Service                      C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                        0.62
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           80.6        Sum of lost time (s)                    13.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 64.4%         ICU Level of Service                      C
Analysis Period (min)                                 15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                     Page 8
PM Peak Period                                                                                 9: Dillon Dr & Frontage Road
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                            12/15/2009



Movement                             EBL    EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                          90       40     215       0      400     100         0      0      0      0     250     195
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900      1900   1900   1900   1900   1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                           5.0                       5.0                                           5.0
Lane Util. Factor                            1.00                     1.00                                           1.00
Frt                                          0.92                     0.97                                           0.94
Flt Protected                                0.99                     1.00                                           1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                           1684                     1795                                           1753
Flt Permitted                               0.70                      1.00                                           1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                           1200                     1795                                           1753
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92      0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                        98      43     234        0     435     109         0      0      0      0     272     212
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      58       0        0        9      0         0      0      0      0      35       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0    317        0        0    535        0         0      0      0      0     449       0
Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%      2%      2%       2%      2%      7%        2%     2%     2%     2%      2%      2%
Turn Type                           Perm                     Perm
Protected Phases                               4                         8                                              6
Permitted Phases                       4                        8
Actuated Green, G (s)                       45.3                      45.3                                           24.9
Effective Green, g (s)                      45.3                      45.3                                           24.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                          0.56                      0.56                                           0.31
Clearance Time (s)                           5.0                       5.0                                            5.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                         3.0                      3.0                                             3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                           678                     1014                                             544
v/s Ratio Prot                                                       c0.30                                          c0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.26
v/c Ratio                                   0.47                      0.53                                           0.83
Uniform Delay, d1                           10.3                      10.8                                           25.6
Progression Factor                          1.00                      1.00                                           1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                        2.3                       2.0                                            9.9
Delay (s)                                   12.6                      12.8                                           35.5
Level of Service                               B                         B                                              D
Approach Delay (s)                          12.6                      12.8                      0.0                  35.5
Approach LOS                                   B                         B                        A                     D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             20.6       HCM Level of Service                   C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.63
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             80.2       Sum of lost time (s)                 10.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   85.0%        ICU Level of Service                    E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page 4
PM Peak Period                                                                         10: Dillon Dr & NB Frontage Rd
Proposed Action (Year 2035) Traffic Volumes                                                                    12/15/2009



Movement                            EBL     EBR      NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        40       0      500     110      0        0
Sign Control                        Stop                     Free   Free
Grade                                0%                       0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                43       0     543      120      0        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                  None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1207       0        0
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1207       0         0
tC, single (s)                       6.4     6.2       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                       68     100       67
cM capacity (veh/h)                  135    1085     1623
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    NB 1     NB 2
Volume Total                          43     543      120
Volume Left                           43     543        0
Volume Right                           0       0        0
cSH                                  135    1623     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.32    0.33     0.07
Queue Length 95th (ft)                32      37        0
Control Delay (s)                   43.9     8.3      0.0
Lane LOS                               E       A
Approach Delay (s)                  43.9     6.8
Approach LOS                           E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          9.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   37.7%       ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
SEH, Inc.                                                                                                           Page 5
                                                              Appendix D
                                                   Figures A thru H and Table A




I-25 and Dillon Drive/Eden-Platteville Boulevard                   103325-PUEBL
Traffic Operations and Safety Analysis                               May 24, 2010
Pueblo, Colorado
