     Travel Demand
    Management Plan
 Tryg's & Apartment Building
    3118 West Lake Street
                  Minneapolis, MN

AUTHORIZED PROPERTY REPRESENTATIVE:


By_______________________________ Dated:__________________________
      Mr. Johnny Carlson
      Trammell Crow Chicago Development, Inc.
      2215 South York Road, Suite 204
      Oak Brook, IL 60523

MINNEAPOLIS COMMUNITY PLANNING AND
                                                        - DRAFT -
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:


By________________________________ Dated:___________________________
      Doug Kress, CPED Development Services Director


MINNEAPOLIS PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:


By_________________________________ Dated:____________________________
      Steve Mosing, P.E., P.T.O.E., Traffic Operations Engineer



PREPARED BY:                        I hereby certify that this report was prepared by me
                                    or under my direct supervision, and that I am a duly
                                    Licensed Professional Engineer under the laws of
                                    the State of Minnesota.

                                    By:      __________________________________
                                             Michael P. Spack, P.E., P.T.O.E.
                                             License No. 40936

                                    Dated:     December 23, 2013
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

    1.    Introduction and Summary ....................................................... 1
    2.    Proposed Development ............................................................ 2
    3.    Analysis of Existing Conditions ............................................... 3
    4.    Traffic and Parking Analyses ................................................... 5
    5.    Travel Demand Management (TDM) Plan ................................ 8
    6.    Conclusions & Recommendations .......................................... 9
    7.    Appendix .................................................................................... 9


                                         LIST OF FIGURES
    Figure 2.1 ­ Location Maps ................................................................................ 2
    Figure 2.2 ­ Site Plan .......................................................................................... 3



                                          LIST OF TABLES
    Table 4.1 ­ Vehicles Generated by Development ............................................. 5




Travel Demand Management Plan                                i                                        3118 West Lake Street
        1. Introduction and Summary
                  a. Purpose of Report and Study Objectives
                     An apartment building with a ground floor restaurant is proposed to
                     be built east of Market Plaza and north of Lake Street at 3118 West
                     Lake Street in Minneapolis, MN.

                     The purpose of this report is to determine if the proposed
                     development will significantly impact the adjacent transportation
                     system.     The report will satisfy the City of Minneapolis'
                     requirements for the development site to have a Travel Demand
                     Management Plan in place. Based on discussions with the City of
                     Minneapolis Transportation Division staff, the study objectives are:
                          i. Document the existing and proposed conditions with
                             respect to the transit, parking, bicycle and pedestrian
                             facilities.
                         ii. Document the parking impacts associated with the
                             development.
                        iii. Identify any traffic operations issues.
                        iv.  Develop and implement strategy measures to encourage
                             non-single occupancy vehicle modes of transportation with
                             the goal of attaining a 55% automobile, 35% transit, 10%
                             pedestrian/bicycle mode split.

                  b. Executive Summary
                     This report reviewed the traffic impacts and transportation related
                     design elements of the proposed development at the site. The
                     findings of this study are:
                          i.  Adequate vehicle parking will be provided on site, per
                              Chapter 541 of Minneapolis' Code of Ordinances.
                         ii.  The site will need to provide at least 92 bicycle parking
                              spaces, 80 of which meet Minneapolis' long-term parking
                              standards and three of which are easily accessible to the
                              restaurant use.
                        iii.  A small loading zone will need to be provided on site within
                              the parking area.
                        iv.   Traffic from the proposed development is not anticipated to
                              have a significant impact on area traffic operations.
                         v.   The existing driveway intersection serving the site should
                              be converted to a ¾ access, blocking left turns out of the
                              site.
                        vi.   It is recommended the TDM measures documented in
                              Section 5 of this report be implemented to encourage non-
                              single occupancy vehicle modes of transportation for the
                              development residents, visitors and employees.



Travel Demand Management Plan                   1                            3118 West Lake Street
        2. Proposed Development
                  a. Site Location
                     The proposed development site is located east of Market Plaza and
                     north of Lake Street in Minneapolis, MN. Figure 2.1 shows the
                     development site.




                     Figure 2.1 ­ Location Maps
                  b. Land Use and Development Plan
                     The development site is located at the site of the existing Tryg's
                     restaurant on the north side of Lake Street between Market Plaza
                     and Excelsior Boulevard in Minneapolis, MN (see Figure 1 for site
                     location and Figure 2 for the ground floor site plan). The site
                     currently contains 112 parking stalls and an approximately 11,000
                     square foot restaurant, which will be demolished as part of the
                     redevelopment.

                     The redevelopment project is proposed to contain one 272,490
                     square foot, 11 story building with underground and surface



Travel Demand Management Plan                 2                            3118 West Lake Street
                     parking. It will include approximately 177 apartment units and a
                     5,056 square foot restaurant. The site is proposed to have 100
                     surface level parking stalls for both residential and retail uses, 50
                     dedicated to the Tryg's restaurant, and 186 underground garage
                     parking stalls for residential use. Direct access is proposed to in
                     connection with adjacent properties via the existing driveway on
                     Lake Street. The development is assumed to be built and fully
                     occupied in 2015.

                     A ground level site plan for the development is shown in Figure 2.2
                     and the Appendix.

                     The parcel is currently zoned C3A (Commercial District) and the
                     southern half of the parcel is in the Shoreland Overlay District (SH).




                       Figure 2.2 ­ Site Plan


        3. Analysis of Existing Conditions
                  a. Pedestrians & Bicycles
                     Sidewalks exist adjacent to all roads in the area surrounding the
                     proposed site. The site is adjacent to the Midtown Greenway trail
                     and direct access is proposed on the north side of the site.




Travel Demand Management Plan                   3                             3118 West Lake Street
                  b. Transit
                     Metro Transit bus stops are located near the site on Lake Street at
                     Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard. They provide access to
                     routes 12, 17, and 114 that service the Uptown neighborhood and
                     Downtown Minneapolis.

                     The Southwest Light Rail Transit line is proposed but not approved
                     at this time. As part of the LRT line, the West Lake station is
                     proposed approximately two blocks west of the 3118 West Lake
                     Street site and would provide direct service to Downtown
                     Minneapolis.


                  c. Physical Characteristics of Roadway Network
                     Lake Street is Hennepin County State Aid Highway 25 by the site
                     and merges into Hennepin County State Aid Highway 3 east of the
                     site with Excelsior Boulevard. It is a four lane, two-way road with a
                     35 mph speed limit near the site. It is divided by a median with
                     gaps to allow turns. Turn lanes are provided at key intersections
                     along the corridor.

                     Excelsior Boulevard is Hennepin County State Aid Highway 3 near
                     the site. It is a four lane, two-way, partially divided road with a 35
                     mph speed limit near the site.

                     Market Plaza is a four lane, two-way, undivided city street with a 30
                     mph speed limit near the site.

                     The Lake Street/Market Plaza intersection is a four-legged
                     signalized intersection.    The Lake Street/Excelsior Boulevard
                     intersection is a three-legged signalized intersection with several
                     driveway accesses near the intersection.

                     There are five driveway accesses on Lake Street between Market
                     Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard. Three of these driveways are on
                     the south side of Lake Street and lead into a gas station. The other
                     two driveways are on the north side of Lake Street, with one
                     leading into the existing Tryg's site and one approximately 25 feet
                     east of the Tryg's driveway leading into the neighboring Lake Street
                     condominium building. An eastbound to northbound exclusive left
                     turn lane exists on Lake Street for the Tryg's/Loop Calhoun
                     driveways. Due to the partial median along Lake Street, several of
                     the driveways have restricted movements.




Travel Demand Management Plan                   4                             3118 West Lake Street
        4. Traffic and Parking Analyses
                  a. Site Traffic Forecasting & Analysis
                     A trip generation analysis was performed for the site based partially
                     on the number of vehicles using the neighboring Lake Street
                     condominium building and partially on the existing traffic to the
                     current Tryg's restaurant site.

                     Based on the close proximity of the Loop Calhoun condominiums
                     and the proposed apartments, the residential units in each building
                     will have similar traffic generation rates. The Loop Calhoun's
                     website lists 123 units, of which 70 are occupied. This equates to
                     Loop Calhoun generating 0.63 vehicle trips per unit in the a.m.
                     peak hour and 0.45 vehicle trips per unit in the p.m. peak hour. It is
                     possible more than 70 units are occupied at Loop Calhoun through
                     leases, but assuming the lowest known occupancy rate results in
                     the most conservative traffic generation rate (i.e. the rate would be
                     lower if there were more units occupied, which would lead to less
                     traffic being generated by the proposed apartment building if a
                     lower rate per unit is applied).

                     The proposed apartment building is to have 177 units. Assuming
                     full occupancy of the proposed apartments, the peak hour traffic of
                     the proposed apartments is forecast to be 177/70 or 2.53 times that
                     of the Loop Calhoun traffic.

                     The existing Tryg's restaurant is proposed to be reconstructed to
                     approximately half of its current size. The bar area is anticipated to
                     be approximately the same size in the new building as in the
                     existing building; however the sit-down restaurant area will be
                     significantly smaller. Since the p.m. peak hour lines up with the
                     existing happy hour at the bar, it is assumed that 75 percent of the
                     traffic currently using the Tryg's driveway during the p.m. peak hour
                     will remain after the redevelopment even though the overall
                     restaurant space will be half the size. The resultant trip generation
                     is shown in Table 4.1.

                     Table 4.1 ­ Vehicles Generated by Development
                                              AM Peak Hour       PM Peak Hour
                           Description
                                              In        Out       In      Out
                         Restaurant/Bar        1         2       23         3
                         Apartment
                                              13        99       51        30
                         (177 units)
                                TOTALS        14        101      74        33




Travel Demand Management Plan                   5                             3118 West Lake Street
                     A detailed Traffic Impact Study was completed for the 3118 West
                     Lake Street project and can be seen in the Appendix. The Traffic
                     Impact Study found the existing driveway on Lake Street should be
                     converted to a ¾ access (banning left turns out of the site) and the
                     increase in traffic from the proposed redevelopment will have
                     negligible impact on the adjacent traffic signal controlled
                     intersections.


                  b. Parking Forecasting & Analysis
                      The Institute of Transportation Engineers' Parking Generation, 4th
                      Edition gives parking demand for various land uses based upon
                      collected data. For apartments during a weekday in a central city,
                      non-downtown setting the average peak parking demand is 1.37
                      vehicles per dwelling unit. For 177 apartment units this leads to
                      demand for 242 parking spaces. For a quality restaurant on a
                      non-Friday weekday the average peak parking demand is 10.60
                      vehicles per 1,000 square feet. For a 5,056 square foot restaurant
                      this leads to demand for 54 parking spaces. The site is planning
                      on providing 236 parking spaces for residential use and 50 parking
                      spaces for restaurant use. This totals to only 10 spaces less than
                      the estimated need from the Institute of Transportation Engineers'
                      Parking Generation, 4th Edition.

                      The Institute of Transportation Engineers dataset is a nationwide
                      dataset and includes more suburban locations. Due to the fact
                      that the site is in a multi-modal area with close proximity to bus
                      routes, bike and walking paths and possibly a future light-rail stop,
                      the parking proposed to be provided is anticipated to be adequate
                      for the site.

                      The City of Minneapolis' Code of Ordinances lists minimum and
                      maximum parking requirements for various land uses.            For
                      dwellings, the minimum parking required is one unit for every
                      dwelling unit and there is no maximum for parking. This leads to
                      at least 177 parking spaces needed for the apartment building
                      which it will meet by having 236 spaces. For a sit down restaurant
                      use, the minimum parking required is one space for every 500
                      square feet up to 2,000 square feet and then one space for every
                      300 square feet in addition to that. The maximum parking allowed
                      is one space for every 75 square feet. This leads to a minimum of
                      14 spaces and a maximum of 67 spaces. With 50 spaces being
                      proposed, this also meets City of Minneapolis requirements.




Travel Demand Management Plan                   6                             3118 West Lake Street
                  c. Bicycle Parking Analysis
                     According to the Minneapolis Code of Ordinances Section 541.180
                     Bicycle Parking, residential developments are subject to the
                     requirements of Table 541-3 Bicycle Parking Requirements which
                     states that one bicycle parking space is required for every two
                     dwelling units with at least 90% of these spaces meeting the
                     standards for long-term bicycle parking. Based on the proposed
                     177 apartment units for this development, that leads to at least 89
                     bicycle parking spaces required, with 80 of them meeting long-term
                     bicycle parking standards.

                     Section 541.180 of the Minneapolis Code of Ordinances states that
                     "Required long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be located in
                     enclosed and secured or supervised areas providing protection
                     from theft, vandalism and weather and shall be accessible to
                     intended users. Required long-term bicycle parking for residential
                     uses shall not be located within dwelling units or within deck or
                     patio areas accessory to dwelling units."

                     For the restaurant use on the site, according to the Minneapolis
                     Code of Ordinances Section 541.180 Bicycle Parking at least three
                     spaces are required. These spaces shall include a bicycle rack
                     which permits the locking of the bicycle frame and one wheel to the
                     rack, and which supports the bicycle in a stable position without
                     damage to wheels, frame or components.

                     For the entire site, there must be at least 92 bicycle parking spaces,
                     80 of which meet long-term bicycle parking standards and three of
                     which are accessible for the restaurant uses.

                  d. Alternate Transportation Modes
                     As discussed in Section 3.b of this report, there are transit facilities
                     located very near the proposed site that give access to much of the
                     metro area.

                     In addition to transit, there is a Nice Ride bicycle sharing station
                     near the site on the north side of Lake Calhoun. As discussed in
                     Section 3.a of this report, several bicycle facilities exist near the
                     site. The area is also served by the Car2Go car sharing service.

                  e. Loading Zones
                     Per the requirements of Minneapolis Code of Ordinances Section
                     541.490, one small loading space is required for residential uses
                     with 100 to 250 units and no space is required for retail/restaurant
                     uses with less than 20,000 square feet. A small loading zone is




Travel Demand Management Plan                    7                              3118 West Lake Street
                     defined as being at least 10 feet wide and 25 feet long. A small
                     loading zone will need to be provided within the parking area.

        5. Travel Demand Management (TDM) Plan
            The developer, the building owner, property manager or their successors
            of the 3118 West Lake Street site will develop and implement measures to
            encourage non-single occupancy vehicle modes of transportation with the
            goal of having at least 45% of its transportation trips being made by
            transit, bicycling, or walking. At a minimum, the following strategies will be
            implemented to minimize the site's impact on the area transportation
            system.

                 a. Designate a Transportation Coordinator
                     The developer will designate an employee or contractor to act as
                     the Transportation Coordinator. That employee will maintain and
                     monitor TDM activities as well as serve as liaison to Metro
                     Commuter Services and Metro Transit.            The Transportation
                     Coordinator will serve as the conduit for providing up-to-date
                     information on alternative commute programs and incentives to
                     building residents, employees and patrons. At a minimum, the
                     Transportation Coordinator will:
                          Provide a "move in package" for all new residents. The
                            move in package will provide, at a minimum:
                                o Information on various bus incentive programs (e.g
                                   Metro Transit Go-To Cards, U-Pass and Commuter
                                   Challenge program) as well as vanpool incentives
                                   (e.g Metro Vanpool program).
                                o Information on various car sharing programs that are
                                   available in the area.
                          Set up and maintain a display of commuter information near
                            the entrance or in an accessible part of the building. This
                            information, which will be supplied by Metro Transit, will
                            include transit schedules, rideshare applications, bike
                            information, Guaranteed Ride Home Program brochures,
                            etc. To maintain an awareness of alternative modes of
                            transportation, information may be distributed through e-
                            mail, flyers, posters in frequented locations, etc. This
                            information will also be provided in the offices, locker area,
                            or break rooms in the restaurant.
                          Distribute information on Mn/DOT's real-time traveler
                            information program: 5-1-1 or www.511mn.org.

                 b. Promote Walking
                     Well lit sidewalks will be provided adjacent to the site on Lake
                     Street. The site will meet Minneapolis' requirements for on -site
                     lighting to provide a pedestrian friendly environment. If any existing


Travel Demand Management Plan                   8                             3118 West Lake Street
                     sidewalks are impacted by construction, the sidewalks shall be
                     rebuilt with ADA-compliant tactile dome curb ramps to assist the
                     visually impaired.

                 c. Promote Bicycling
                     The building must provide convenient and safe bicycle storage for
                     92 bicycles with at least 80 spaces being in a secure area which
                     meets requirements in Minneapolis' Code of Ordinances Table 541-
                     3 Minimum Bicycle Parking Requirements. Three of the bicycle
                     parking spaces should be easily accessible for users of the
                     restaurant use on site. The developer will designate additional
                     bicycle storage facility space if and when the demand warrants.

                 d. Minimize the Impact of Trucks
                     To the extent possible, the developer or their successors will
                     encourage truck and service vehicles (not including small package
                     deliveries) to access the site outside of the weekday peak hours
                     (from 7-9 a.m. and 4-6 p.m.). Loading/unloading of deliveries as
                     well as garbage trucks will be accommodated on-site within the
                     loading zone/parking lot.

        6. Conclusions & Recommendations
            Traffic from the proposed development on is not anticipated to have a
            significant impact on area traffic operations. It is recommended the
            existing driveway intersection serving the site be converted to a ¾ access,
            blocking left turns out of the site. Adequate vehicle parking will be
            provided on site, per Chapter 541 of Minneapolis' Code of Ordinances.
            The site will need to provide at least 92 bicycle parking spaces, 80 of
            which meet long-term bicycle parking standards and three of which are
            accessible for the restaurant and commercial uses.

            It is recommended the travel demand management measures
            documented in Section 5 of this report be implemented to encourage non-
            single occupancy vehicle modes of transportation for the site's residents
            and visitors.


        7. Appendix
                 a. Site Plan
                 b. Traffic Impact Study




Travel Demand Management Plan                 9                           3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                                                                      Appendix A - Site Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                     ONE STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                  SHOPPING CENTER


                                                                                                                                                                                         Trash chute bends
                                         24' - 0"    63' - 0"
                                  7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                         Mech
                                                                                                                                                                         Trash/
               West Lake Street




                                                                                                                                17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                              DN TO P1
                                                                                                               60' - 0"




                                                                                                                                        13,184 SF
                                                               Restaurant




                                                                                                                                                    Parking
                                                    5,056 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lobby/Leasing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Edge of P1




                                                                                                                                                                                             4,643 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Extend Parking if necessary
                                                                                             Covered Parking




                                                                                                                                12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          130' - 0"
                                                                                  3,668 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fountain




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                        22' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trellis
                                                                             18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Seating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Grills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pocket Park?



                                                                                                                          Restaurant Parking
                                      22' - 0"




                                                                            32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOOP CALHOUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONDOMINIUMS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S c a le :   1 " = 5 0 '- 0 "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
Novem ber 19, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tryg's Site                                                        STREET LEVEL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3 1 1 8 W L a k e S t. M in n e a p o lis , M N 5 5 4 1 6
     Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                                                  A1                                                                                                                                   3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo




    Technical Memorandum
    To:        Allan Klugman, P.E., P.T.O.E., City of Minneapolis
    From:      Mike Spack, P.E., P.T.O.E.
    Date:      December 18, 2013
    Re:        Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street Site Development


    Purpose of Report and Study Objectives
    Trammell Crow Company is proposing to redevelop 3118 West Lake Street. The development is
    located on the north side of Lake Street between Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard in Minneapolis,
    MN. The existing Tryg's restaurant will be replaced with an 11 story apartment building that will
    include a smaller restaurant on the ground floor.

    The purpose of this memorandum is to determine if the proposed development will significantly impact
    the adjacent transportation system and to recommend mitigation measures if necessary. Based on
    discussions with City of Minneapolis staff, the study objectives are:
        i.  Document how the existing restaurant and neighboring apartment driveways on Lake Street
            currently operate.
       ii.  Forecast the amount of traffic expected to be generated by the proposed development.
      iii.  Analyze how the site access to Lake Street will operate with full development of the site with
            full access, ¾ access (no left turn out), right-in/right-out and as a combined driveway with full
            access.
      iv.   Recommend an access configuration for the Lake Street/Site Driveway intersection.

    Conclusions and Recommendations
    Based on the following analysis, the proposed development is forecast to generate approximately 115
    vehicle trips in the a.m. peak hour and 105 vehicle trips in the p.m. peak hour. Traffic generated by the
    proposed development will have very little impact on the Lake Street/Market Plaza and Lake
    Street/Excelsior Boulevard intersections. With a full access intersection at the site driveway, long
    queues are expected in the a.m. peak hour leaving the site and very few gaps are available for vehicles
    to turn left out of the site in the p.m. peak hour. Queues are forecast to be acceptable entering and
    exiting the site with both a ¾ access and right-in/right-out access. However, since the right-in/right-out
    layout limits vehicle access to the development, it is recommended that a ¾ access be used at the site
    driveway and the neighboring Loop Calhoun driveway.

    The simplest way to enforce a ¾ intersection for the site driveway would be to place pavement
    mounted pylons along the eastbound left turn lane on Lake Street to the adjacent median. Appropriate
    "One-Way" and "No Left Turn" signs should be placed along the Lake Street corridor where needed.

    Proposed Development Plan
    The development site is located at the site of the existing Tryg's restaurant on the north side of Lake
    Street between Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard in Minneapolis, MN (see Figure 1 for site location
    and Figure 2 for the ground floor site plan). The site currently contains 112 parking stalls and an
    approximately 11,000 square foot restaurant, which will be demolished as part of the redevelopment.

                PO Box 16269  St. Louis Park, MN 55416  888-232-5512  www.SpackConsulting.com
      
Travel Demand Management Plan                       B1                                  3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo

    Spack Consulting                              2 of 6         Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street

    The redevelopment project is proposed to contain one 272,490 square foot, 11 story building with
    underground parking. It will include approximately 177 apartment units and a 5,056 square foot
    restaurant. The site is proposed to have 100 surface level parking stalls for both residential and retail
    uses, 50 dedicated to the Tryg's restaurant, and 186 underground garage parking stalls for residential
    use. Direct access is proposed to in connection with adjacent properties via the existing driveway on
    Lake Street.

    Area Transportation Network Characteristics
    Lake Street is Hennepin County State Aid Highway 25 by the site and merges into Hennepin County
    State Aid Highway 3 east of the site with Excelsior Boulevard. It is a four lane, two-way road with a 35
    mph speed limit near the site. It is divided by a median with gaps to allow turns. Turn lanes are
    provided at key intersections along the corridor.

    Excelsior Boulevard is Hennepin County State Aid Highway 3 near the site. It is a four lane, two-way,
    partially divided road with a 35 mph speed limit near the site.

    Market Plaza is a four lane, two-way, undivided city street with a 30 mph speed limit near the site.

    The Lake Street/Market Plaza intersection is a four-legged signalized intersection. The Lake
    Street/Excelsior Boulevard intersection is a three-legged signalized intersection with several driveway
    accesses near the intersection. On Lake Street between Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard there
    are five driveway accesses. Three of these driveways are on the south side of Lake Street and lead into
    a gas station. The other two driveways are on the north side of Lake Street, with one leading into the
    existing Tryg's site and one approximately 25 feet east of the Tryg's driveway leading into the
    neighboring Lake Street condominium building. An eastbound to northbound exclusive left turn lane
    exists on Lake Street for the Tryg's/Loop Calhoun driveways. Due to the partial median along Lake
    Street, several of the driveways have restricted movements.

    The existing roadway configuration is shown in Figure 3. It should be noted that even though some of
    the driveway movements are restricted, drivers do not always obey these rules. Figure 4 shows an
    example of a driver making a banned left turn. Our turning movement counts captured approximately
    a third of the vehicles leaving the Loop Calhoun driveway turned left even though the driveway is
    signed and striped to ban these left turns.

    Existing Traffic Volumes
    A 24 hour turning movement count at the Lake Street/Excelsior Boulevard intersection was conducted
    on September 7, 2011 and a six and a half hour peak period turning movement count at the Lake
    Street/Market Plaza intersection was conducted on September 15, 2011. These counts were provided
    by the City of Minneapolis and are assumed to still be representative of existing conditions. The a.m.
    peak hours at the study intersections were found to be from 7:30 to 8:30 a.m. at Lake Street/Excelsior
    Boulevard and 7:45 to 8:45 a.m. at Lake Street/Market Plaza. The p.m. peak hour was found to be from
    4:30 to 5:30 p.m. at Lake Street/Excelsior Boulevard and 4:15 to 5:15 p.m. at Lake Street/Market Plaza.

    Videos of the driveway accesses on Lake Street between Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard as well
    as the driveway accesses at the Lake Street/Excelsior Boulevard intersection were collected on
    November 21, 2013. Turning movement counts were done using these videos from 7:30 to 8:45 a.m.
    and 4:15 to 5:30 p.m. to match the peak periods at the adjacent signalized intersections.




Travel Demand Management Plan                       B2                                  3118 West Lake Street
                                    Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo

    Spack Consulting                                    3 of 6          Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street

    The turning movement count data is contained in fifteen minute intervals and is attached. According
    to Mn/DOT traffic flow maps there are approximately 25,000 vehicles per day using Lake Street near
    the site, 17,000 vehicles per day using Excelsior Boulevard near the site and 1,850 vehicles per day
    using Market Plaza near the site.

    Gap Analysis
    The driveway access to the development is proposed to be a stop controlled intersection with a stop
    sign on the driveway approach and free flowing traffic on Lake Street. For vehicles to be able to either
    leave the development or make a left turn into the development, there will need to be gaps in the
    traffic along Lake Street. In order to determine if there are sufficient gaps in the existing traffic along
    Lake Street to allow vehicles to turn left into and left out of the development, a gap study was
    performed based on the Manual of Transportation Engineering Studies, 2nd Edition.

    Since the proposed development will be comprised mostly of apartment traffic, it is assumed the Lake
    Street condominium building next door to the site will have similar traffic patterns to the proposed
    development. Therefore, the peak hour of traffic at the Loop Calhoun driveway was used for the gap
    study periods. Those periods were 7:30 to 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 to 5:30 p.m.

    According to Exhibit 19-10 in the Highway Capacity Manual 2010, on a four lane road, a left turn from
    the minor approach (aka from the site driveway onto Lake Street) needs a 7.5 second gap in both
    directions and a left turn from the major approach (aka from Lake Street into the site) needs a 4.1
    second gap in the opposing direction. These are rounded to eight seconds and four seconds for our
    calculations. Any vehicle following the lead vehicle would need an additional 2.5 seconds of gap time.
    The maximum number of vehicles accommodated by the gaps of four or eight seconds or greater is
    equal to the number of queued vehicles able to make a left turn during each available gap based on the
    four or eight seconds for the lead car and 2.5 seconds for each additional car. It is assumed that all
    gaps 30 seconds or greater are 30 seconds. This results in a conservative estimate of how many
    vehicles could be served during these long gaps because gaps longer than 30 seconds were observed in
    some cases. The results of the gap study can be seen in Table 1.

    Table 1 ­ Gap Study Results
                                                                    Minimum            Maximum
                         Peak Hour           Number of              Number of          Number of
      Movement
                           Period              Gaps               Vehicles Able      Vehicles Able
                                                                   to Use Gaps        to Use Gaps
       Left Turns            AM                   30                   30                 100
      From Site*             PM                    7                    7                  12
       Left Turns            AM                   114                  114                490
      Into Site**            PM                   123                  123                491
    *Gaps needed are 8 seconds or more in both directions
    ** Gaps needed are 4 seconds or more in the westbound direction

    The results from Table 1 show that there are limited gaps for vehicles attempting to make southbound
    left turns from the site, especially during the p.m. peak hour. However, there are many gaps available
    in the westbound traffic for vehicles making eastbound left turns into the site during both peak
    periods.




Travel Demand Management Plan                             B3                                   3118 West Lake Street
                                 Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo

    Spack Consulting                                  4 of 6         Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street

    Site Traffic Forecasting
    A trip generation analysis was performed for the site based partially on the number of vehicles using
    the neighboring Lake Street condominium building and partially on the existing traffic to the current
    Tryg's restaurant site.

    Based on the close proximity of the Loop Calhoun condominiums and the proposed apartments, the
    residential units in each building will have similar traffic generation rates. The Loop Calhoun's website
    lists 123 units, of which 70 are occupied. This equates to Loop Calhoun generating 0.63 vehicle trips
    per unit in the a.m. peak hour and 0.45 vehicle trips per unit in the p.m. peak hour. The proposed
    apartment building is to have 177 units. Assuming full occupancy of the proposed apartments, the
    peak hour traffic of the proposed apartments is forecast to be 177/70 or 2.53 times that of the Loop
    Calhoun traffic.

    The existing Tryg's restaurant is proposed to be reconstructed to approximately half of its current size.
    The bar area is anticipated to be approximately the same size in the new building as in the existing
    building; however the sit-down restaurant area will be significantly smaller. Since the p.m. peak hour
    lines up with the existing happy hour at the bar, it is assumed that 75 percent of the traffic currently
    using the Tryg's driveway during the p.m. peak hour will remain after the redevelopment even though
    the overall restaurant space will be half the size. The resultant trip generation is shown in Table 2.

    Table 2 ­ Trip Generation
                                                AM Peak Hour              PM Peak Hour
                         Description
                                              Entering  Exiting         Entering  Exiting
       Existing     Tryg's Driveway              1         2               31        4
                     Loop Calhoun
      Existing       Driveway (70                 5            39           20           12
                    occupied units)
     Proposed       Restaurant/Bar                1            2            23            3
                    Apartment (177
     Proposed                                    13            99           51           30
                         units)
             TOTAL PROPOSED
                                                 14            101          74           33
               DEVELOPMENT

    The directional orientation of the generated traffic is assumed to follow the existing orientation of
    traffic for the full access build scenarios. For the ¾ access and right-in/right-out access scenarios, traffic
    was routed around the network to be able to access the development. Figures 5 to 14 show the
    turning movement volumes for each of the study scenarios with the site generated traffic added on.

    Micro-Simulation Analyses
    To be able to determine how the site access will operate with the addition of the forecast traffic from
    the proposed development, micro-simulations were run using VISSIMTM software. Micro-simulations,
    such as those done with the VISSIMTM software package, can account for the interactions between
    individual vehicles as they move throughout the transportation network. Since this portion of Lake
    Street is so highly congested and queues often back up from one intersection to the next, micro-
    simulations are better than the static algorithms in the standard Highway Capacity Manual level of
    service calculations when forecasting queue and delay data.

    The following scenarios were modeled in VISSIMTM:




Travel Demand Management Plan                          B4                                     3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo

    Spack Consulting                               5 of 6         Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street

           AM Peak Hour Existing
           PM Peak Hour Existing
           AM Peak Hour Build - Full Access at Site Driveway
           PM Peak Hour Build - Full Access at Site Driveway
           AM Peak Hour Build - ¾ Access at Site Driveway
           PM Peak Hour Build - ¾ Access at Site Driveway
           AM Peak Hour Build - Right-In/Right-Out at Site Driveway
           PM Peak Hour Build - Right-In/Right-Out at Site Driveway
           AM Peak Hour Build - Full Access at Combined Site/Loop Calhoun Driveway
           PM Peak Hour Build - Full Access at Combined Site/Loop Calhoun Driveway

    For each simulation the simulation software was seeded with a random number seed of 1 and a
    recording duration of 60 minutes. The network was given five minutes to populate before being
    recorded. Then the simulation software was run and recorded five times with random number seeds of
    1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The results from each of the five runs were averaged for each scenario.

    The summarized results can be seen in micro-simulation results section of the Appendix. As shown in
    those tables, the delay experienced at the Lake Street/Market Plaza and Lake Street/Excelsior
    Boulevard intersections experiences almost no change between scenarios, so the site will not have
    much impact on those two intersections.

    Other than the two signalized intersections, the three locations focused on in the micro-simulations are
    the southbound movements at the site driveway, the southbound movements at the Loop Calhoun
    driveway and the eastbound left turns into the two driveways from Lake Street.

    Focusing on the 95th percentile queue lengths at these three locations shows there are small queues in
    the existing scenarios which match what was observed during the turning movement counts. In the
    build, full access scenarios with the driveways separated and also combined it can be seen that the
    queue lengths at the site driveway are extremely long in the a.m. peak hour. They are not as long in
    the p.m. peak hour since there is less traffic exiting to the left than in the a.m. peak hour. These long
    queues in the a.m. peak hour combined with the very few number of gaps in the p.m. peak hour, as
    shown in Table 1, suggest that having full access for the driveways in the build scenarios will be
    problematic.

    In the ¾ access and right-in/right-out scenarios, vehicles exiting the driveway must make right turns.
    Therefore, the 95th percentile queues are the same in the two scenarios. In the ¾ access scenario,
    vehicles can still turn left into the development form Lake Street while in the right-in/right-out scenario
    they cannot. The 95th percentile queues for the eastbound left turns into the driveways in the ¾ access
    scenarios are 2 vehicles or less. A queue of two vehicles could fit into the left turn lane that exists
    there, so a ¾ access should not be a problem. The right-in/right-out layout will also not have any
    queuing problems, but does limit access to the development.

    Improvements/Modifications to Existing Transportation Network
    It is recommended the site driveway and Loop Calhoun driveway be restricted to operate as ¾ access
    intersections. The simplest way to do this would be to add pavement mounted pylons (similar to those
    shown in Figure 15) every four feet from the beginning of the left turn lane to the median as shown in
    Figure 16.




Travel Demand Management Plan                       B5                                   3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo

    Spack Consulting                              6 of 6         Traffic Impact Study for 3118 West Lake Street

    Making these changes will cause the three gas station accesses along Lake Street to operate as right-
    in/right-out accesses. This is acceptable since it is how they should be operating today with the current
    roadway configuration. "One-Way" and "No Left Turn" signs should be updated throughout the Lake
    Street corridor between Market Plaza and Excelsior Boulevard where needed.


    Attachments
            A. Figures 1 through 16
            B. Traffic Counts
            C. Micro-Simulation Results




Travel Demand Management Plan                      B6                                   3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                  Appendix A - Figures

                                                                         Figure 1
                                                                   Location Maps

                                                                                            North
                                                                                           No Scale




                                                                       Study Area




                                                                       Proposed Site




Traffic Impact Memo                            A1                  3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                  B7                  3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                  Appendix A - Figures

                                                                       Figure 2
                                                                       Site Plan




Traffic Impact Memo                            A2                  3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                  B8                  3118 West Lake Street
                                                                    Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                      Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 3
                                                                                                                                               Existing Lanes & Traffic Control

                                                                                                                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                                                   No Scale




                                                                                                                    Office/Apartments Access
        Market Plaza




                                                                         Site Access




                                                                                                     Loop Calhoun
                                Lake Street
                                        Gas Station




                                                                                       Gas Station
                                                      Gas Station




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                  A3                                                        3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                        B9                                                        3118 West Lake Street
                                      Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                         Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                           Figure 4
                                                                                                                         Example of an Illegal Turn

                                                                                                                                                                        North
                                                                                                                                                                       No Scale




                                                                                                   Loop Calhoun Access
                                                              Site Access                                                  This vehicle is making
                                                                                                                           an illegal left turn


West Lake St
                                    Gas Station Access
               Gas Station Access




                                                                                  Gas Station Access




   Traffic Impact Memo                                                      A4                                                                      3118 West Lake Street

   Travel Demand Management Plan                                            B10                                                                     3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                               Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                               Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Figure 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AM Existing Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No Scale




                                                                                                                                                                     Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                                 Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24 (1)




                                        Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             988 (31)
                         11 (4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              476 (18)
                         21 (1)                                  34 (3)                                                                                                                                     41 1                               0
                          23



                                                                 977 (28)                                               1 1                         0     27 1 11                         1                                                   988 (31)
                                                                  43                                                                               1053                                  1027 (31)
                                                                                                                                                   (31)

                                                                            Lake Street                                          1             1               4                    1

                         43 (1)                                                  1027 (43)                       1014 (43)                           1010 (43)                                         11
                       955 (42)                                                         6                  0            12                     0 0 3        4                       13          1023 (43)
                                                       148 (4)
                                                                 19
                                                                 57
                       116 (7)




                                                                                             Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                                   Gas Station
                                                                                                                             Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   515 (31)




                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                                  A5                                                                                                                                    3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                       B11                                                                                                                                    3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                              Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                        Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PM Existing Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No Scale




                                                                                                                                                         Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                         Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24




                                        Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1077 (18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         604 (11)
                         90 (2)

                         80 (1)
                          58
                                                          111                                                                                                                           38 (1) 0                               1
                                                          917 (19)                                              3 1                        18   11 0 1                       8                                                1076 (18)
                                                           75                                                                              1099                             1106 (19)
                                                                                                                                           (19)

                                                                     Lake Street
                                                                                                                         13            0            12                  0

                         61                                               1434 (22)                      1409 (22)                           1397 (22)                               13 (1)
                      1291 (20)                                                  10                 1           13                     1 1 3        4                   9         1394 (21)
                                                       240 (9)
                                                       79 (2)
                                                       73 (1)
                        244




                                                                                      Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                     Gas Station
                                                                                                                     Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  775 (20)




                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                          A6                                                                                                                          3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                B12                                                                                                                         3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                            Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                                Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AM Build Full Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              No Scale




                                                                                                                                                                   Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                                 Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24 (1)




                                        Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              995 (31)
                         11 (4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               476 (18)
                         21 (1)                                  34 (3)                                                                                                                                  41 1                               0
                          23



                                                                 1027 (28)                                             51 50                        7   27 1 11                         1                                                  995 (31)
                                                                  43                                                                               1053                                1034 (31)
                                                                                                                                                   (31)

                                                                             Lake Street                                          7            1             4                    1

                          43 (1)                                                  1033 (43)                      1014 (43)                           1059 (43)                                      11
                       961 (42)                                                          6                  0           12                     0 0 3        4                     13         1072 (43)
                                                       148 (4)
                                                                 19
                                                                 57
                        116 (7)




                                                                                              Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                                 Gas Station
                                                                                                                             Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               515 (31)




                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                                    A7                                                                                                                                     3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                         B13                                                                                                                                     3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                             Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                        Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PM Build Full Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No Scale




                                                                                                                                                           Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                         Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24




                                        Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1102 (18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   604 (11)
                         90 (2)

                         80 (1)
                          58
                                                          111                                                                                                                             38 (1) 0                               1
                                                          931 (19)                                             25 8                        43   11 0 1                         8                                                1101 (18)
                                                           82                                                                              1099                               1131 (19)
                                                                                                                                           (19)

                                                                     Lake Street                                       31              0            12                    0

                         61                                               1452 (22)                      1409 (22)                           1404 (22)                                 13 (1)
                      1309 (20)                                                  10                 1           13                     1 1 3        4                     9         1401 (21)
                                                       240 (9)
                                                       79 (2)
                                                       73 (1)
                        244




                                                                                      Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                         Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    783 (20)




                                                                                                                     Gas Station
                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                          A8                                                                                                                                    3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                B14                                                                                                                                   3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                    Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                        Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AM Build 3/4 Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Office/Apartments Access




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No Scale




                                                                                                                                                            Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                         Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24 (1)




                                         Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         995 (31)
                          11 (4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         476 (18)
                          21 (1)                          34 (3)                                                                                                                                   41 1                               0
                           23


                                                          1027 (28)                                              101                        7            39                      1                                                   995 (31)
                                                           105                                                                             1065                                 1034 (31)
                                                                                                                                           (31)

                                                                      Lake Street                                          7           1                  4                1

                          43 (1)                                          1033 (43)                      1014 (43)                                 1009 (43)                                  11
                       961 (42)                                                  6                  0           12                     3                  4                13          1011 (43)
                                                        148 (4)
                                                           19
                                                           57
                        116 (7)




                                                                                      Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                          Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          577 (31)




                                                                                                                     Gas Station
                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                               A9                                                                                                                                    3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                 B15                                                                                                                                       3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                             Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                      Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Figure 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PM Build 3/4 Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                No Scale




                                                                                                                                                          Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                       Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24




                                           Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1102 (18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                604 (11)
                           90 (2)

                           80 (1)
                                                             111
                            58
                                                                                                                                                                                          38 (1) 0                           1
                                                             931 (19)                                               33                   43           12                      8                                             1101 (18)
                                                              91                                                                         1100                                1131 (19)
                                                                                                                                         (19)

                                                                        Lake Street                                 31               0                12                 0

                           61                                               1452 (22)                  1409 (22)                                1398 (22)                              13 (1)
                        1309 (20)                                                  10             1           13                     5                 4                 9          1394 (21)
                                                          240 (9)
                                                          79 (2)
                          244                             73 (1)




                                                                                        Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                        Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  792 (20)




                                                                                                                   Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                835




                              Legend:
    ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                         A10                                                                                                                                  3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                               B16                                                                                                                                  3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                   Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                     Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Figure 11
                                                                                                                                                                                               AM Build Right-In/Right-Out Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      No Scale




                                                                                                                                                        Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                       Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24 (1)




                                        Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1006 (31)
                         11 (4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       478 (18)
                         21 (1)                          34 (3)                                                                                                                                41 1                         0
                          23



                                                         1027 (28)                                                    101                14             39                   5                                             1004 (31)
                                                          105                                                                            1065                               1040 (31)
                                                                                                                                         (31)

                                                                     Lake Street


                         43 (1)                                          1022 (43)                     1010 (43)                                1009 (43)                                 11
                      953 (42)                                                  6              0              12                     3                 4               13          1011 (43)
                                                       148 (4)
                                                          19
                                                          54
                       124 (7)




                                                                                     Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                      Gas Station
                                                                                                                   Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               588 (31)




                           Legend:
 ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                        A11                                                                                                                       3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                              B17                                                                                                                       3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                    Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                        Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Figure 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PM Build Right-In/Right-Out Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No Scale




                                                                                                                                                           Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                         Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24




                                         Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1145 (18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       604 (11)
                          90 (2)

                          80 (1)
                           58
                                                           111                                                                                                                             38 (1) 0                           1
                                                           931 (19)                                                     33                 74           12                    20                                             1144 (18)
                                                            91                                                                             1100                               1162 (19)
                                                                                                                                           (19)

                                                                      Lake Street

                         61                                               1409 (22)                      1397 (22)                                1398 (22)                             13 (1)
                      1277 (20)                                                  10                 1           13                     5                 4                9          1394 (21)
                                                        240 (9)
                                                        79 (2)
                                                        62 (1)
                        276




                                                                                      Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                         Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 835 (20)




                                                                                                                     Gas Station
                            Legend:
  ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                          A12                                                                                                                       3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                B18                                                                                                                       3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                             Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure 13
                                                                                                                                                                            AM Build Combination Driveway Full Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                              Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    No Scale




                                                                                                                                                             Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                        Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24 (1)




                                         Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    995 (31)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    476 (18)
                           11 (4)
                           21 (1)
                                                            34 (3)                                                                                                                            41 1                        0
                            23

                                                            1027 (28)                                           78 1 61                         8                                                                        995 (31)
                                                             43                                                                                1026
                                                                                                                                               (31)

                                                                        Lake Street
                                                                                                                                      11   1

                          43 (1)                                               1033 (43)                      1010 (43)                                1070 (43)                         11
                        961 (42)                                                      6                  0           12                    0   0   3          4              13   1072 (43)
                                                        148 (4)
                                                           19
                        116 (7)                                   57




                                                                                           Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                           Gas Station
                                                                                                                    Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              515 (31)




                              Legend:
    ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                                A13                                                                                                               3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                      B19                                                                                                               3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                                             Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Figure 14
                                                                                                                                                                            PM Build Combination Driveway Full Access Volumes




                                                                                                                                                                                             Office/Apartments Access




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Office/Apartments Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No Scale




                                                                                                                                                             Loop Calhoun
                                                                                                                          Site Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24




                                             Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1102 (18)
                           90 (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 604 (11)


                                    80 (1)
                            58                                 111                                                                                                                     38 (1) 0                          1
                                                               930 (19)                                             36 9                     51                                                                         1101 (18)
                                                                83                                                                          1088
                                                                                                                                            (19)

                                                                          Lake Street                                         43        0                                    0

                           61                                                  1452 (22)                      1397 (22)                              1405 (22)                      13 (1)
                        1309 (20)                                                     10                 1           13                 1   1      3        4                9   1401 (21)
                                                            240 (9)
                                                            79 (2)
                          244                               73 (1)




                                                                                           Gas Station




                                                                                                                                                           Gas Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            783 (20)




                                                                                                                      Gas Station
                              Legend:
    ## (##) = Passenger Vehicle Volume (Heavy Vehicle Volume)




Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                                             A14                                                                                                                  3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                                                   B20                                                                                                                  3118 West Lake Street
                                Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                  Appendix A - Figures

                                                              Figure 15
                                     Example of Pavement Mounted Pylons




                                                                            Image Source: Google Images




Traffic Impact Memo                           A15                  3118 West Lake Street

Travel Demand Management Plan                 B21                  3118 West Lake Street
                                        Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                           Appendix A - Figures

                                                                                           Figure 16
                                                                Pylon Locations for 3/4 Intersection

                                                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                              No Scale




                                                                                                     Loop Calhoun Access
                                                                Site Access



West Lake St
                                      Gas Station Access
                 Gas Station Access




                                                                                    Gas Station Access




          = Approximate Location of Pavement Mounted Pylons

               = Approximate Locations of One Way Signs

           = Approximate Locations of No Left Turn Signs




   Traffic Impact Memo                                                        A16                                          3118 West Lake Street

   Travel Demand Management Plan                                              B22                                          3118 West Lake Street
                                                                              Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                           Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                                Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                            PO Box 16296
                                                                                      St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                              File Name     : 16 - Lake St & Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                              Site Code     : 16
Lake St W & Market Plaza S                                                                                                                    Start Date    : 9/15/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                               Page No       :1
                                                                                  Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                               Market Plaza S                                Lake St W                               Market Plaza S                             Lake St W
                                 From North                                  From East                                From South                                From West
 Start Time          Left   Thru    Right Bikes     App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru    Right Bikes   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes   App. Total   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***

      07:00 AM         4      0       2         1           7      4    138       7       0      149      14       3       6      0          23       0    159     19       0        178          357
      07:15 AM         1      1       4         0           6      8    235       4       0      247      27       2       5      0          34       8    165     22       0        195          482
      07:30 AM         4      1       3         0           8      6    273       7       0      286      42       1       6      2          51       5    235     25       0        265          610
      07:45 AM         5      2       6         0          13      7    322      10       3      342      49       5      16      0          70       6    216     20       2        244          669
          Total       14      4      15         1          34     25    968      28       3     1024     132      11      33      2         178      19    775     86       2        882         2118

      08:00 AM         4      3       2         0           9      9    231      11       0      251      40       1      19      1          61      17    252     25       0        294          615
      08:15 AM         4      3       5         2          14     12    250       7       2      271      25       3      16      1          45      11    220     33       2        266          596
      08:30 AM         9      7      10         0          26     15    202       9       1      227      38      10       6      1          55      10    247     45       2        304          612
      08:45 AM        12      4       5         1          22     14    182       9       2      207      32      14       9      1          56       8    185     40       0        233          518
          Total       29     17      22         3          71     50    865      36       5      956     135      28      50      4         217      46    904    143       4       1097         2341

*** BREAK ***

      11:30 AM        21     14      10         0          45     21    126      29       0      176      34      14      10      2          60      27    150     46       0        223          504
      11:45 AM        14     11      17         0          42     20    128      27       3      178      32      17       7      1          57      29    148     38       1        216          493
          Total       35     25      27         0          87     41    254      56       3      354      66      31      17      3         117      56    298     84       1        439          997

      12:00 PM        17     18      16         0         51      26    138      18       2      184      39      19      17      2          77      18    137     62       0        217          529
      12:15 PM        18     14      30         1         63      17    145      22       3      187      49      18      14      4          85      28    139     31       4        202          537
      12:30 PM        18     12      21         2         53      23    167      16       1      207      53      11      22      3          89      24    138     59       7        228          577
      12:45 PM        18     14      27         5         64      26    169      38       3      236      44      13      12      2          71      26    163     53       6        248          619
          Total       71     58      94         8        231      92    619      94       9      814     185      61      65     11         322      96    577    205      17        895         2262

      01:00 PM        26     23      34         5          88     12    140      27       2      181      48      16      23      0           87     21    118     52       2        193          549
      01:15 PM        15     21      29         5          70     17    149      26       4      196      45      11       9      2           67     13    134     24       1        172          505
*** BREAK ***
          Total       41     44      63     10           158      29    289      53       6      377      93      27      32      2         154      34    252     76       3        365         1054

*** BREAK ***

      04:00 PM        18     19      13      3            53      21    177      22       8      228      46      18      13      2          79      27    225     34       5        291          651
      04:15 PM        16     21      19      3            59      16    189      21       4      230      38      14       9      3          64      18    232     45       3        298          651
      04:30 PM        21     14      19      2            56      17    243      18       3      281      69      16      18      6         109      14    288     66       2        370          816
      04:45 PM        16     12      20      2            50      17    220      33       6      276      57      26      20      1         104      10    247     58       1        316          746
          Total       71     66      71     10           218      71    829      94      21     1015     210      74      60     12         356      69    992    203      11       1275         2864




                Traffic Impact Memo                                                              B1                                                              3118 West Lake Street
                Travel Demand Management Plan                                                    B23                                                             3118 West Lake Street
                                                                              Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                          Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                                 Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                             PO Box 16296
                                                                                       St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                                File Name      : 16 - Lake St & Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                Site Code      : 16
Lake St W & Market Plaza S                                                                                                                      Start Date     : 9/15/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                                 Page No        :2
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                              Market Plaza S                                  Lake St W                               Market Plaza S                                Lake St W
                                From North                                    From East                                From South                                   From West
 Start Time         Left   Thru    Right Bikes     App. Total   Left   Thru     Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru    Right Bikes    App. Total   Left   Thru     Right Bikes    App. Total   Int. Total
      05:00 PM       22      15       26      5          68      27     223        26      4       280       63     13       14      1         91      23     263        60     0         346          785
      05:15 PM       22      17       27      2          68      14     250        34      4       302       60     26       22      4        112      14     148        60    10         232          714
      05:30 PM       21      20       15      3          59      26     242        31      1       300       56     11       28      3         98      15     179        46     4         244          701
      05:45 PM       17      17       28      0          62      22     217        43      2       284       50     13       23      0         86      30     173        54     8         265          697
          Total      82      69       96     10         257      89     932      134      11      1166      229     63       87      8        387      82     763      220     22        1087         2897

      06:00 PM       16     24      21         4          65     29    211        24       3       267      53      15     19       6          93      16    234        67       4        321          746
      06:15 PM       18     13      13         3          47     28    247        36       5       316      61      20     31       2         114      27    272        70       4        373          850
*** BREAK ***
          Total      34     37      34         7        112      57    458        60       8       583     114      35     50       8         207      43    506       137       8        694         1596

    Grand Total      377    320     422      49        1168      454   5214      555      66      6289    1164     330     394      50       1938      445   5067     1154      68       6734       16129
     Apprch %       32.3   27.4    36.1     4.2                  7.2   82.9      8.8       1              60.1      17    20.3     2.6                 6.6   75.2     17.1       1
       Total %       2.3      2     2.6     0.3         7.2      2.8   32.3      3.4     0.4         39    7.2       2     2.4     0.3         12      2.8   31.4      7.2     0.4       41.8
          Cars       371    316     416      45        1148      447   5088      549      46      6130    1134     325     391      43       1893      437   4921     1127      54       6539       15710
        % Cars      98.4   98.8    98.6    91.8        98.3     98.5   97.6     98.9    69.7      97.5    97.4    98.5    99.2      86       97.7     98.2   97.1     97.7    79.4       97.1        97.4
 Heavy Vehicles        6      4       6       4          20        7    126        6      20       159      30       5       3       7         45        8    146       27      14        195         419
 % Heavy Vehicles    1.6    1.2     1.4     8.2         1.7      1.5    2.4      1.1    30.3        2.5    2.6     1.5     0.8      14        2.3      1.8    2.9      2.3    20.6        2.9         2.6




               Traffic Impact Memo                                                                 B2                                                                 3118 West Lake Street
               Travel Demand Management Plan                                                       B24                                                                3118 West Lake Street
                                                                       Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                       Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                         Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                  PO Box 16296
                                                                            St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                           File Name     : 16 - Lake St & Market Plaza
                                                                                                                           Site Code     : 16
Lake St W & Market Plaza S                                                                                                 Start Date    : 9/15/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                            Page No       :3

                                                                                    Market Plaza S
                                                                                Out       In      Total
                                                                                1311     1148      2459
                                                                                  19        20       39
                                                                                1330     1168      2498


                                                                                 416  316     371   45
                                                                                   6     4       6   4
                                                                                 422  320     377   49
                                                                               Right Thru    Left Peds
                                          13177

                                          13534
                                            357



                                                      437

                                                      445
                                                         8




                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                          Total




                                                     Left




                                                                                                            555 5214

                                                                                                            549 5088


                                                                                                                       5838

                                                                                                                       5683
                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                        155
                                                                                                              6
                                                                                        North
                                                       54 1127 4921

                                                       68 1154 5067
                                                                 146

                                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                       Lake St W
                                         Lake St W




                                                                                                                 126
                                             6539
                                               195
                                             6734




                                                                                 9/15/2011 06:00 AM
                                              In




                                                                                                                          6289

                                                                                                                          6130
                                                                                 9/15/2011 06:45 PM




                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                            159
                                                             27




                                                                                                          Left Peds
                                                                                                           454

                                                                                                           447
                                                                                 Cars




                                                                                                              7
                                           162
                                          6638

                                          6800




                                                                                 Heavy Vehicles




                                                                                                                                 12127

                                                                                                                                 11813
                                          Out




                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                       14




                                                                                                                                   314
                                                                                                                 66
                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                 46
                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                1134  325   391   43
                                                                                  30     5    3    7
                                                                                1164  330   394   50


                                                                                1890     1893      3783
                                                                                  38        45       83
                                                                                1928     1938      3866
                                                                                Out       In      Total
                                                                                    Market Plaza S




         Traffic Impact Memo                                                            B3                                                  3118 West Lake Street
         Travel Demand Management Plan                                                  B25                                                 3118 West Lake Street
                                                                             Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                               Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                            PO Box 16296
                                                                                      St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                                File Name     : 16 - Lake St & Market Plaza
                                                                                                                                                Site Code     : 16
Lake St W & Market Plaza S                                                                                                                      Start Date    : 9/15/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                                 Page No       :4


                                 Market Plaza S                            Lake St W                                  Market Plaza S                              Lake St W
                                   From North                              From East                                    From South                                From West
 Start Time           Left   Thru     Right Bikes App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes       App. Total   Left   Thru    Right Bikes   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 12:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
      07:45 AM          5        2        6       0     13        7    322       10        3        342       49      5     16       0         70        6    216     20       2        244          669
      08:00 AM          4        3        2       0       9       9    231       11        0        251       40      1     19       1         61       17    252     25       0        294          615
      08:15 AM          4        3        5       2     14       12    250        7        2        271       25      3     16       1         45       11    220     33       2        266          596
      08:30 AM          9        7       10       0     26       15    202        9        1        227       38     10      6       1         55       10    247     45       2        304          612
  Total Volume         22       15       23       2     62       43   1005       37        6       1091      152     19     57       3        231       44    935    123       6       1108         2492
   % App. Total      35.5     24.2     37.1     3.2             3.9   92.1      3.4      0.5                65.8    8.2   24.7     1.3                   4   84.4   11.1     0.5
           PHF       .611     .536     .575    .250   .596     .717   .780    .841     .500        .798     .776   .475   .750    .750       .825     .647   .928   .683    .750       .911         .931

Peak Hour Analysis From 12:45 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
      04:30 PM         21       14      19        2    56        17    243       18        3        281       69     16     18       6        109       14    288     66       2        370          816
      04:45 PM         16       12      20        2    50        17    220       33        6        276       57     26     20       1        104       10    247     58       1        316          746
      05:00 PM         22       15      26        5    68        27    223       26        4        280       63     13     14       1         91       23    263     60       0        346          785
      05:15 PM         22       17      27        2    68        14    250       34        4        302       60     26     22       4        112       14    148     60      10        232          714
  Total Volume         81       58      92       11   242        75    936     111        17       1139      249     81     74      12        416       61    946    244      13       1264         3061
   % App. Total      33.5       24      38      4.5             6.6   82.2      9.7      1.5                59.9   19.5   17.8     2.9                 4.8   74.8   19.3       1
           PHF       .920     .853    .852     .550  .890      .694   .936    .816     .708        .943     .902   .779   .841    .500       .929     .663   .821   .924    .325       .854         .938




              Traffic Impact Memo                                                                   B4                                                              3118 West Lake Street
              Travel Demand Management Plan                                                         B26                                                             3118 West Lake Street
                                                                          Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                      Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                             Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                         PO Box 16296
                                                                                   St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                               File Name          : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                   Start Date         : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                Page No            :1
                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            Lake St W                                     Lake St W                                                                         Excelsior Blvd W
                            From North                                    From East                                 From South                                 From West
Start Time      Left   Thru    Right Bikes     App. Total   Left   Thru     Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru     Right Bikes   App. Total    Left   Thru   Right Bikes     App. Total   Int. Total
    12:00 AM     25       0        0     0            25      0       5        26      0        31        0       0        0     0           0       0      13        0      0          13          69
    12:15 AM     22       0        0     2            24      0      17        18      0        35        0       0        0     0           0       1      14        0      0          15          74
    12:30 AM     15       0        1     0            16      0       7        28      0        35        0       0        0     0           0       0       6        0      0           6          57
    12:45 AM     15       0        0     0            15      0      12        23      0        35        0       0        0     0           0       0       3        0      0           3          53
        Total    77       0        1     2            80      0      41        95      0       136        0       0        0     0           0       1      36        0      0          37         253

    01:00 AM     14      0       0         0          14      0     10        16       0        26       0       0       0      0            0       0      4       0       0            4          44
    01:15 AM     10      0       0         0          10      0      8        12       0        20       0       0       0      0            0       0      6       0       0            6          36
    01:30 AM      6      0       0         0           6      0      7         9       0        16       0       0       0      1            1       0      8       0       0            8          31
    01:45 AM      7      0       0         0           7      0     10        14       0        24       0       0       0      0            0       0      3       0       0            3          34
        Total    37      0       0         0          37      0     35        51       0        86       0       0       0      1            1       0     21       0       0           21         145

    02:00 AM     12      0       0         0          12      0      7        12       0        19       0       0       0      0            0       0      9       0       0            9           40
    02:15 AM      5      0       0         0           5      0      3         9       0        12       0       0       0      0            0       0      3       0       0            3           20
    02:30 AM      7      0       0         0           7      0      1         4       0         5       0       0       0      0            0       0      0       0       0            0           12
    02:45 AM      4      0       0         0           4      0      2         7       0         9       0       0       0      0            0       0      3       0       0            3           16
        Total    28      0       0         0          28      0     13        32       0        45       0       0       0      0            0       0     15       0       0           15           88

    03:00 AM      7      0       0         0           7      0      2         7       0         9       0       0       0      0            0       0      6       0       0            6           22
    03:15 AM      6      0       0         0           6      0      4         8       0        12       0       0       0      0            0       1      3       0       0            4           22
    03:30 AM      2      0       0         2           4      0      3         7       0        10       0       0       0      0            0       0      1       0       0            1           15
    03:45 AM      3      0       0         0           3      0      1         9       0        10       0       0       0      0            0       0      4       0       0            4           17
        Total    18      0       0         2          20      0     10        31       0        41       0       0       0      0            0       1     14       0       0           15           76

    04:00 AM      5      0       0         0           5      0      1         5       0         6       0       0       0      0            0       0      7       0       0            7          18
    04:15 AM      2      0       0         0           2      0      2        10       0        12       0       0       0      0            0       0      4       0       0            4          18
    04:30 AM     10      0       0         0          10      0      3        13       0        16       0       0       0      0            0       0      4       0       0            4          30
    04:45 AM     13      0       0         0          13      0      4        17       0        21       0       0       0      0            0       0      8       0       0            8          42
        Total    30      0       0         0          30      0     10        45       0        55       0       0       0      0            0       0     23       0       0           23         108

    05:00 AM      9      0       0         0          9       0     10        16       0        26       0       0       0      0            0       0      4       0       0            4          39
    05:15 AM     30      0       0         0         30       0      9        28       0        37       0       0       0      0            0       1      9       0       0           10          77
    05:30 AM     38      0       1         0         39       0     20        40       0        60       0       0       0      0            0       0      5       0       0            5         104
    05:45 AM     44      0       0         0         44       0     10        59       0        69       0       0       0      0            0       0     15       0       0           15         128
        Total   121      0       1         0        122       0     49       143       0       192       0       0       0      0            0       1     33       0       0           34         348

    06:00 AM     57      0       0         0         57       0     17        63       0        80       0       0       0      0            0       0     32       0       0           32         169
    06:15 AM     81      0       2         0         83       0     20        78       0        98       0       0       0      0            0       0     29       0       0           29         210
    06:30 AM    114      0       0         0        114       0     23       122       0       145       0       0       0      0            0       0     55       0       0           55         314




           Traffic Impact Memo                                                                 B5                                                                3118 West Lake Street
           Travel Demand Management Plan                                                       B27                                                               3118 West Lake Street
                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                      Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                           Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                       PO Box 16296
                                                                                 St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                             File Name          : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                             Site Code          : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                 Start Date         : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                              Page No            :2
                                                                             Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            Lake St W                                   Lake St W                                                                         Excelsior Blvd W
                            From North                                  From East                                 From South                                 From West
Start Time      Left   Thru    Right Bikes     App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru     Right Bikes   App. Total    Left   Thru   Right Bikes     App. Total   Int. Total
    06:45 AM    136       0        0     0          136       0      34    147       2       183        0       0        0     0           0       0      49        0      2         51          370
        Total   388       0        2     0          390       0      94    410       2       506        0       0        0     0           0       0     165        0      2        167         1063

    07:00 AM    157      0       1         0        158       0     54     149       2       205       0       0       0      1            1       0     50       0       0          50          414
    07:15 AM    187      0       0         0        187       0     71     195       1       267       0       0       0      0            0       1     80       0       0          81          535
    07:30 AM    281      0       0         0        281       0    127     283       2       412       0       0       0      0            0       0    127       0       0         127          820
    07:45 AM    266      0       0         0        266       0    134     243       0       377       0       0       0      0            0       0    150       0       0         150          793
        Total   891      0       1         0        892       0    386     870       5      1261       0       0       0      1            1       1    407       0       0         408         2562

    08:00 AM    215      0       1         0        216       0    114     243       0       357       0       0       0      0            0       0    144       0       0         144          717
    08:15 AM    307      0       3         0        310       0    119     208       1       328       0       0       0      0            0       0    125       0       0         125          763
    08:30 AM    216      0       0         0        216       0     81     190       0       271       0       0       0      0            0       0    108       0       0         108          595
    08:45 AM    183      0       2         0        185       0     80     125       1       206       0       0       0      0            0       0     80       0       1          81          472
        Total   921      0       6         0        927       0    394     766       2      1162       0       0       0      0            0       0    457       0       1         458         2547

    09:00 AM    170      0       0         0        170       0     71     100       0       171       0       0       0      0            0       0     71       0       0          71          412
    09:15 AM    146      0       1         0        147       0     75     146       0       221       0       0       0      0            0       0     85       0       0          85          453
    09:30 AM    144      0       0         0        144       0     94     111       0       205       0       0       0      0            0       0     79       0       2          81          430
    09:45 AM    156      0       0         0        156       0    100     117       0       217       0       0       0      0            0       0     63       0       0          63          436
        Total   616      0       1         0        617       0    340     474       0       814       0       0       0      0            0       0    298       0       2         300         1731

    10:00 AM    125      0       0         0        125       0     85     105       2       192       0       0       0      0            0       0     49       0       1          50          367
    10:15 AM    127      0       0         0        127       0     84     121       1       206       0       0       0      0            0       0     56       0       2          58          391
    10:30 AM    151      0       0         1        152       0     89     128       0       217       0       0       0      0            0       0     75       0       1          76          445
    10:45 AM    160      0       0         0        160       0     98     125       3       226       0       0       0      0            0       1     81       0       1          83          469
        Total   563      0       0         1        564       0    356     479       6       841       0       0       0      0            0       1    261       0       5         267         1672

    11:00 AM    131      0       0         0        131       0     70     140       0       210       0       0       0      0            0       0     70       0       2          72          413
    11:15 AM    147      0       1         0        148       0     80     147       2       229       0       0       0      0            0       0     85       0       1          86          463
    11:30 AM    164      0       1         0        165       0     95     117       0       212       0       0       0      0            0       0     95       0       0          95          472
    11:45 AM    180      0       1         0        181       0    125     160       4       289       0       0       0      0            0       0     82       0       0          82          552
        Total   622      0       3         0        625       0    370     564       6       940       0       0       0      0            0       0    332       0       3         335         1900

    12:00 PM    153      0       0         0        153       0    101     140       0       241       0       0       0      0            0       0    119       0       2         121          515
    12:15 PM    138      0       1         0        139       0    130     129       0       259       0       0       0      0            0       0     97       0       0          97          495
    12:30 PM    190      0       0         0        190       0    121     166       0       287       0       0       0      0            0       1    104       0       0         105          582
    12:45 PM    175      0       0         0        175       0    149     144       0       293       0       0       0      0            0       1    114       0       0         115          583
        Total   656      0       1         0        657       0    501     579       0      1080       0       0       0      0            0       2    434       0       2         438         2175




           Traffic Impact Memo                                                               B6                                                                3118 West Lake Street
           Travel Demand Management Plan                                                     B28                                                               3118 West Lake Street
                                                                          Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                      Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                             Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                         PO Box 16296
                                                                                   St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                               File Name          : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                               Site Code          : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                   Start Date         : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                Page No            :3
                                                                               Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                            Lake St W                                     Lake St W                                                                         Excelsior Blvd W
                            From North                                    From East                                 From South                                 From West
Start Time      Left   Thru    Right Bikes     App. Total   Left   Thru     Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru     Right Bikes   App. Total    Left   Thru   Right Bikes     App. Total   Int. Total
    01:00 PM    173       0        2     0          175       0     118      173       0       291        0       0        0     0           0       0     109        0      0        109          575
    01:15 PM    200       0        0     1          201       0     118      144       3       265        0       0        0     0           0       2     121        0      2        125          591
    01:30 PM    157       0        1     0          158       0     109      185       6       300        0       0        0     0           0       0     123        0      0        123          581
    01:45 PM    194       0        0     0          194       0     102      182       0       284        0       0        0     0           0       1     111        0      1        113          591
        Total   724       0        3     1          728       0     447      684       9      1140        0       0        0     0           0       3     464        0      3        470         2338

    02:00 PM    176      0       1         0        177       0    117       189       0       306       0       0       0      0            0       1    108       0       0         109          592
    02:15 PM    162      0       0         1        163       0    106       183       0       289       0       0       0      0            0       1    104       0       1         106          558
    02:30 PM    188      0       0         0        188       0    104       180       2       286       0       0       0      0            0       0    117       0       1         118          592
    02:45 PM    197      0       1         0        198       0    121       186       0       307       0       0       0      0            0       0    112       0       2         114          619
        Total   723      0       2         1        726       0    448       738       2      1188       0       0       0      0            0       2    441       0       4         447         2361

    03:00 PM    158      0       0         0        158       0    126       176       0       302       0       0       0      1            1       0    127       0       2         129          590
    03:15 PM    231      0       0         0        231       0    122       188       6       316       0       0       0      0            0       0    104       0       3         107          654
    03:30 PM    244      0       2         0        246       0    132       177       0       309       0       0       0      0            0       1    122       0       1         124          679
    03:45 PM    222      0      10         0        232       0    114       178       4       296       0       0       0      0            0       0    115       0       2         117          645
        Total   855      0      12         0        867       0    494       719      10      1223       0       0       0      1            1       1    468       0       8         477         2568

    04:00 PM     258     0       0         0        258       0    109       245       3       357       0       0       0      0            0       0    144       0       3         147          762
    04:15 PM     397     0       0         0        397       0    151       253       2       406       0       0       0      2            2       0    169       0       5         174          979
    04:30 PM     291     0       5         0        296       0    180       259       1       440       0       0       0      0            0       0    234       0       4         238          974
    04:45 PM     384     0       0         0        384       0    161       256       0       417       0       0       0      0            0       0    208       0       1         209         1010
        Total   1330     0       5         0       1335       0    601      1013       6      1620       0       0       0      2            2       0    755       0      13         768         3725

    05:00 PM     343     0       0         0        343       0    123       240       0       363       0       0       0      1            1       0    184       0       3         187          894
    05:15 PM     232     0       0         0        232       0     91       181       1       273       0       0       0      0            0       0    101       0       4         105          610
    05:30 PM     301     0       0         1        302       0    164       250       0       414       0       0       0      0            0       0    196       0       0         196          912
    05:45 PM     307     0       0         1        308       0    135       260       0       395       0       0       0      0            0       0    155       0       3         158          861
        Total   1183     0       0         2       1185       0    513       931       1      1445       0       0       0      1            1       0    636       0      10         646         3277

    06:00 PM     321     0       0         0        321       0    156       230       0       386       0       0       0      0            0       0    176       0       0         176          883
    06:15 PM     286     0       0         0        286       0    141       222       0       363       0       0       0      0            0       1    184       0       0         185          834
    06:30 PM     260     0       0         1        261       0    132       195       0       327       0       0       0      0            0       0    151       0       1         152          740
    06:45 PM     250     0       0         0        250       0    121       162       0       283       0       0       0      0            0       1    147       0       0         148          681
        Total   1117     0       0         1       1118       0    550       809       0      1359       0       0       0      0            0       2    658       0       1         661         3138

    07:00 PM    230      0       0         0        230       0    117       156       2       275       0       0       0      1            1       0    150       0       1         151          657
    07:15 PM    260      0       0         1        261       0    127       217       0       344       0       0       0      0            0       0    169       0       2         171          776
    07:30 PM    222      0       0         1        223       0    122       195       1       318       0       0       0      0            0       0    108       0       1         109          650




           Traffic Impact Memo                                                                 B7                                                                3118 West Lake Street
           Travel Demand Management Plan                                                       B29                                                               3118 West Lake Street
                                                                              Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                          Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                                Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                            PO Box 16296
                                                                                      St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                 File Name          : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                     Start Date         : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                  Page No            :4
                                                                                 Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                  Lake St W                                 Lake St W                                                                         Excelsior Blvd W
                                  From North                                From East                                 From South                                 From West
 Start Time           Left   Thru    Right Bikes   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes App. Total      Left  Thru     Right Bikes   App. Total    Left   Thru   Right Bikes     App. Total   Int. Total
      07:45 PM        180       0        2     1        183       0     118    240       0       358        0       0        0     0           0       2     139        0      5        146          687
          Total       892       0        2     3        897       0     484    808       3      1295        0       0        0     1           1       2     566        0      9        577         2770

      08:00 PM        139      0       0       0        139       0     72      115       0      187       0       0       0      1            1       0     88       0       3          91          418
      08:15 PM        169      0       0       0        169       0    108      128       2      238       0       0       0      0            0       0     90       0       1          91          498
      08:30 PM        124      0       0       0        124       0     75      124       1      200       0       0       0      1            1       0     65       0       1          66          391
      08:45 PM        144      0       0       0        144       0     80      130       0      210       0       0       0      0            0       0     77       0       1          78          432
          Total       576      0       0       0        576       0    335      497       3      835       0       0       0      2            2       0    320       0       6         326         1739

      09:00 PM        111      0       0       0        111       0     77      115       0      192       0       0       0      0            0       0     69       0       2          71          374
      09:15 PM        107      0       0       0        107       0     77       99       0      176       0       0       0      0            0       0     47       0       0          47          330
      09:30 PM         89      0       0       0         89       0     47      115       0      162       0       0       0      0            0       0     59       0       0          59          310
      09:45 PM         82      0       0       0         82       0     43       88       0      131       0       0       0      0            0       0     39       0       0          39          252
          Total       389      0       0       0        389       0    244      417       0      661       0       0       0      0            0       0    214       0       2         216         1266

      10:00 PM         93      0       0       0         93       0     40       65       0      105       0       0       0      0            0       0     46       0       1          47          245
      10:15 PM         76      0       0       0         76       0     39       61       0      100       0       0       0      0            0       0     40       0       0          40          216
      10:30 PM         85      0       0       0         85       0     41       84       2      127       0       0       0      0            0       0     29       0       0          29          241
      10:45 PM         53      0       0       0         53       0     36       78       0      114       0       0       0      0            0       0     30       0       0          30          197
          Total       307      0       0       0        307       0    156      288       2      446       0       0       0      0            0       0    145       0       1         146          899

      11:00 PM         61      0       0       0         61       0     14       66       0       80       0       0       0      0            0       0     30       0       0           30         171
      11:15 PM         47      0       0       0         47       0     28       29       0       57       0       0       0      1            1       0     19       0       1           20         125
      11:30 PM         39      0       0       0         39       0     17       51       0       68       0       0       0      0            0       0     12       0       0           12         119
      11:45 PM         22      0       0       0         22       0     12       42       0       54       0       0       0      0            0       0     13       0       1           14          90
          Total       169      0       0       0        169       0     71      188       0      259       0       0       0      1            1       0     74       0       2           76         505

*** BREAK ***
     Grand Total    13233      0      40      13     13286        0    6942   11631      57    18630       0       0       0     10           10      17    7237      0       74       7328       39254
      Apprch %        99.6     0     0.3     0.1                  0    37.3    62.4     0.3                0       0       0    100                  0.2    98.8      0        1
        Total %       33.7     0     0.1       0      33.8        0    17.7    29.6     0.1     47.5       0       0       0      0            0       0    18.4      0      0.2       18.7
           Cars     12723      0      34       6     12763        0    6706   11245      51    18002       0       0       0      4            4      17    6969      0       66       7052       37821
         % Cars       96.1     0      85    46.2      96.1        0    96.6    96.7    89.5     96.6       0       0       0     40           40     100    96.3      0     89.2       96.2        96.3
 Heavy Vehicles        510     0       6       7       523        0     236     386       6      628       0       0       0      6            6       0     268      0        8        276        1433
 % Heavy Vehicles      3.9     0      15    53.8       3.9        0     3.4     3.3    10.5       3.4      0       0       0     60           60       0     3.7      0     10.8        3.8         3.7




               Traffic Impact Memo                                                               B8                                                                3118 West Lake Street
               Travel Demand Management Plan                                                     B30                                                               3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                      Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                      Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                                        Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                                 PO Box 16296
                                                                                           St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                File Name            : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                                Site Code            : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                    Start Date           : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                 Page No              :5

                                                                                                          Lake St W
                                                                                                Out           In    Total
                                                                                               11262        12763   24025
                                                                                                 386           523    909
                                                                                               11648        13286   24934


                                                                                                 34     0 12723  6
                                                                                                  6     0   510  7
                                                                                                 40     0 13233 13
                                                                                              Right Thru Left Peds




                                                                                                                            11631 6942

                                                                                                                            11245 6706
                                                           13792

                                                           14310
                                                             518




                                                                        0
                                                                      17

                                                                      17




                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                            Total




                                                                                                                                         20470

                                                                                                                                         19692
                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                              386




                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                           778
                                           Excelsior Blvd W




                                                                                                           North
                                                                             0 6969

                                                                             0 7237
                                                                                268

                                                                    Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                         Lake St W
                                                                                                                                   236
                                                   7052
                                                     276
                                                   7328




                                                                                                      9/7/2011 12:00 AM




                                                                                                                                           18630

                                                                                                                                           18002
                                                    In




                                                                                                      9/8/2011 12:00 AM




                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                              628
                                                                             0




                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                      Cars




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                          242
                                         6740

                                         6982




                                                                                                      Heavy Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                   39100

                                                                                                                                                   37694
                                         Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                       8




                                                                                                                                                    1406
                                                                      66

                                                                      74




                                                                                                                                   57

                                                                                                                                   51
                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                               Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                   0     0    0    4
                                                                                                   0     0    0    6
                                                                                                   0     0    0   10


                                                                                                      0         4       4
                                                                                                      0         6       6
                                                                                                      0        10      10
                                                                                                Out          In     Total




         Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                B9                                                  3118 West Lake Street
         Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                      B31                                                 3118 West Lake Street
                                                                             Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Counts
                                                                               Traffic Data Inc
                                                                                           PO Box 16296
                                                                                     St. Louis Park, MN 55416


                                                                                                                                  File Name          : 591 - Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W
                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 591
Lake St W & Excelsior Blvd W                                                                                                      Start Date         : 9/7/2011
Minneapolis, MN                                                                                                                   Page No            :6


                                   Lake St W                               Lake St W                                                                           Excelsior Blvd W
                                   From North                              From East                                   From South                                 From West
 Start Time           Left   Thru     Right Bikes App. Total   Left   Thru   Right Bikes      App. Total   Left   Thru    Right Bikes   App. Total    Left   Thru   Right Bikes    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 AM to 12:00 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
      07:30 AM        281        0        0       0    281        0    127     283        2        412        0      0      0       0           0       0     127      0       0        127          820
      07:45 AM        266        0        0       0    266        0    134     243        0        377        0      0      0       0           0       0     150      0       0        150          793
      08:00 AM        215        0        1       0    216        0    114     243        0        357        0      0      0       0           0       0     144      0       0        144          717
      08:15 AM        307        0        3       0    310        0    119     208        1        328        0      0      0       0           0       0     125      0       0        125          763
  Total Volume      1069         0        4       0  1073         0    494     977        3       1474        0      0      0       0           0       0     546      0       0        546         3093
   % App. Total      99.6        0      0.4       0               0   33.5    66.3      0.2                   0      0      0       0                   0     100      0       0
           PHF       .871     .000     .333    .000   .865     .000   .922    .863    .375        .894     .000   .000   .000    .000       .000     .000    .910   .000    .000       .910         .943

Peak Hour Analysis From 12:15 PM to 12:00 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
      04:15 PM        397        0       0        0   397         0    151     253        2        406        0      0      0       2           2       0     169      0       5        174          979
      04:30 PM        291        0       5        0   296         0    180     259        1        440        0      0      0       0           0       0     234      0       4        238          974
      04:45 PM        384        0       0        0   384         0    161     256        0        417        0      0      0       0           0       0     208      0       1        209         1010
      05:00 PM        343        0       0        0   343         0    123     240        0        363        0      0      0       1           1       0     184      0       3        187          894
  Total Volume      1415         0       5        0  1420         0    615    1008        3       1626        0      0      0       3           3       0     795      0      13        808         3857
   % App. Total      99.6        0     0.4        0               0   37.8      62      0.2                   0      0      0     100                   0    98.4      0     1.6
           PHF       .891     .000    .250     .000  .894      .000   .854    .973    .375        .924     .000   .000   .000    .375       .375     .000    .849   .000    .650       .849         .955




              Traffic Impact Memo                                                                  B10                                                              3118 West Lake Street
              Travel Demand Management Plan                                                        B32                                                              3118 West Lake Street
                                                                                            Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                                                                         Appendix B - Traffic Counts

                                                                                            Lake St Driveway Counts - 11/21/2013
                                                                                                                                     Cars
                     1                                          2                                                          3                                            4                                                     5
                   West BP                                  Center BP                                                   East BP                                       Tryg's                                            Loop Calhoun
             Right In Right Out   Right In    Thru In   Left In   Right Out   Thru Out   Left Out    Right In     Left In    Right Out Left Out     Right In   Left In    Right Out   Left Out   Right In   Thru In   Left In   Right Out   Thru Out   Left Out
7:30:00 AM      1          0         2          0         0           0          0          1           0           0            3        1            0         0            0          0          0         0         0           3          0          4
7:45:00 AM      2          0         2          1         1           0          0          0           1           0            1        0            0         0            0          0          0         0         0          12          1          2
8:00:00 AM      2          0         2          0         0           2          0          0           0           1            5        0            0         1            1          1          1         0         0           7          0          3
8:15:00 AM      1          0         3          0         0           0          0          0           1           0            4        0            0         0            0          0          0         0         4           5          0          2
8:30:00 AM      0          0         5          0         0           1          0          0           2           0            3        0            0         0            0          0          0         0         1           1          0          1

                                                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                     1                           2                                      3                                             4                                           5
                   West BP                   Center BP                               East BP                                        Tryg's                                  Loop Calhoun
             Right In Right Out   Right In    Left In  Right Out   Right In    Left In    Right Out Left Out     Right In    Left In    Right Out   Left Out   Right In   Left In   Right Out    Left Out
7:30:00 AM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
7:45:00 AM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
8:00:00 AM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
8:15:00 AM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
8:30:00 AM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0

                                                                                                                                     Cars
                     1                                          2                                                          3                                            4                                                     5
                   West BP                                  Center BP                                                   East BP                                       Tryg's                                            Loop Calhoun
             Right In Right Out   Right In    Thru In   Left In   Right Out   Thru Out   Left Out    Right In     Left In    Right Out Left Out     Right In   Left In    Right Out   Left Out   Right In   Thru In   Left In   Right Out   Thru Out   Left Out
4:15:00 PM      0          0         2          0         0           0          1          0           0           0            1        0            1         1            0          0          2         1         4           2          0          0
4:30:00 PM      2          0         4          0         0           0          0          1           2           0            5        0            4         4            0          0          1         0         6           3          0          0
4:45:00 PM      1          1         3          0         0           0          0          0           2           0            0        0            5         1            1          0          0         0         1           2          0          0
5:00:00 PM      2          0         4          0         0           3          0          0           0           0            2        0            2         5            0          1          3         0         1           3          0          0
5:15:00 PM      5          0         0          0         0           1          0          0           0           0            2        0            7         3            2          0          4         0         4           3          0          1

                                                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                     1                           2                                      3                                             4                                           5
                   West BP                   Center BP                               East BP                                        Tryg's                                  Loop Calhoun
             Right In Right Out   Right In    Left In  Right Out   Right In    Left In    Right Out Left Out     Right In    Left In    Right Out   Left Out   Right In   Left In   Right Out    Left Out
4:15:00 PM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
4:30:00 PM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
4:45:00 PM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
5:00:00 PM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0
5:15:00 PM      0          0         0          0          0          0          0            0         0           0          0            0          0          0         0           0           0




    Traffic Impact Memo                                                                                                     B11                                                                                            3118 West Lake Street
    Travel Demand Management Plan                                                                                           B33                                                                                            3118 West Lake Street
                                              Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                             Appendix B - Traffic Counts

                        Office Apartment Accesses at Lake & Excelsior - 11/21/2013
                                     Cars                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                                 1                           2                                             1                          2
                            West Access                 East Access                                   West Access                East Access
             Right In    Left In Right Out   Left Out     Right In                       Right In   Left In Right Out Left Out     Right In
7:30:00 AM      0          3          8          0           1              7:30:00 AM      0         0           0       0           0
7:45:00 AM      0          1         14          1           4              7:45:00 AM      0         0           0       0           0
8:00:00 AM      0          4         10          0           6              8:00:00 AM      0         0           0       0           1
8:15:00 AM      0          3          9          0           3              8:15:00 AM      0         0           0       0           0
8:30:00 AM      0          3          3          0           11             8:30:00 AM      0         0           0       0           0



                                     Cars                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                                 1                           2                                             1                          2
                            West Access                 East Access                                   West Access                East Access
             Right In    Left In Right Out   Left Out     Right In                       Right In   Left In Right Out Left Out     Right In
4:15:00 PM      1          4         12          0           5              4:15:00 PM      0         0           0       0           0
4:30:00 PM      0          4          8          0           7              4:30:00 PM      0         1           1       0           0
4:45:00 PM      0          2          8          0           4              4:45:00 PM      0         0           0       0           0
5:00:00 PM      0          3         10          0           8              5:00:00 PM      0         0           0       0           0
5:15:00 PM      0          3          8          0           4              5:15:00 PM      0         0           0       0           0




    Traffic Impact Memo                                               B12                                       3118 West Lake Street
    Travel Demand Management Plan                                     B34                                       3118 West Lake Street
                                                           Appendix B - Traffic Impact Memo
                                         Appendix C - Micro-Simulation Results

                                                               Micro-Simulation Summary Results
                                                                            Average Delay (Second)
                                                                           AM                                                                         PM
                                     Existing   Build - Full    Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full   Existing   Build - Full   Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full
                        NB              17          17              18           20                  18             32          33             31           31                  31
                        EB              11          11              14           14                  11             45          46             44           47                  47
Lake St & Market
                        SB              22          23              27           24                  24             26          28             25           27                  27
      Plaza
                        WB              11          11              11           11                  11             16          17             16           15                  16
                      Overall           12          12              13           13                  12             32          33             31           32                  32
                       NEB              30          30              30           31                  30             31          34             36           36                  37
                        EB              16          16              14           15                  16             29          30             30           34                  30
   Lake St &
                        SB              10           9              10            9                  9              12          15             10           16                  15
 Excelsior Blvd
                       SWB              12          12              11           11                  12             10          11             11           12                  11
                      Overall           16          16              16           16                  16             21          22             22           24                  23



                                                                             Avg Queues (Vehicles)
                                                                           AM                                                                         PM
                                     Existing   Build - Full    Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full   Existing   Build - Full   Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full
 Trygs/Combo            SB              0            9               1            1                  15             0            1              0            0                  1
 Loop Calhoun           SB              0            0               0            0                 n/a             0            0              0            0                 n/a
    Lake St             EBL             0            0               0           n/a                 0              0            0              0           n/a                 0


                                                                     95th Percentile Queues (Vehicles)
                                                                           AM                                                                         PM
                                     Existing   Build - Full    Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full   Existing   Build - Full   Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full
 Trygs/Combo            SB              0           23               5            5                  41             1            5              1            1                  7
 Loop Calhoun           SB              1            2               1            1                 n/a             0            0              1            1                 n/a
    Lake St             EBL             0            0               0           n/a                 0              1            1              2           n/a                 1


                                                                             Max Queues (Vehicles)
                                                                           AM                                                                         PM
                                     Existing   Build - Full    Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full   Existing   Build - Full   Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full
 Trygs/Combo            SB              1           23              17           13                  42             2            9              3            4                  9
 Loop Calhoun           SB              4            4               3            3                 n/a             2            4              2            3                 n/a
    Lake St             EBL             1            2               1           n/a                 2              2           14             16           n/a                 15


                                                                            Average Delay (Seconds)
                                                                           AM                                                                         PM
                                     Existing   Build - Full    Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full   Existing   Build - Full   Build - 3/4 Build - RI/RO   Build - Combo Full
 Trygs/Combo             SB             40         280              49           44                 267             82         174             32           27                 124
 Loop Calhoun            SB             34          45              25           23                 n/a             32          44             25           28                 n/a
                   EBL - To Tryg's      1           14               7           n/a                 13             25          27             27           n/a                 27
    Lake St
                   EBL - To Loop        0           26              23           n/a                n/a             28          23             43           n/a                 0




     Traffic Impact Memo                                                                    C1                                                        3118 West Lake Street

     Travel Demand Management Plan                                                          B35                                                       3118 West Lake Street
