  PLEASE SIGN AND RETURN ORIGINAL
       TO CITY CLERK'S OFFICE



                                                                AGENDA
                                                  SPECIAL MEETING: GLENDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                                                                                                                 nd
                                                COUNCIL CHAMBER, City Hall Г 613 E. Broadway, 2nd Floor
                                                              Glendale, CA 91206
   Welcome to the special public meeting of the Glendale City Council. Meetings are broadcast live on cable channel 6 (GTV6) and rebroadcast throughout the week. Call
   (818) 548-4013 for program schedules. DVD's of the proceedings are available for purchase in the City Clerk's Office. Meetings are also archived on the City Website for
   viewing anytime at www.ci.glendale.ca.us/video_archives.asp. PLEASE TURN OFF CELLULAR PHONES AND PAGERS WHILE INSIDE THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.

   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, auxiliary hearing aids, sign language translation, and Braille transcripts are available upon request.
   Assisted listening devices are available same-day upon request. At least 48 hours (or two business days) notice is required for requests regarding sign language
   translation and Braille transcription services. All documents related to open session items on this agenda that are received less than 72 hours prior to this meeting, and
   are public records, will be available for review in the Office of the City Clerk, 613 E. Broadway, RM 110, Glendale, CA 91206. If you have any question about matters on
   the agenda, or requests for assistance, please contact the office of the City Clerk at (818) 548-2090 during regular business hours.


                                                                            JUNE 25, 2013

      ROLL CALL -                   3:00 p.m.
                -                   Report of the City Clerk of the City Council, re: Posting of Agenda. The Agenda for
                                    the June 25, 2013 special public meeting of the City Council was posted on Friday,
                                    June 21, 2013 on the bulletin board outside City Hall.

            A SPECIAL PUBLIC MEETING of the City Council is hereby called to meet at 3:00 p.m. on
      Tuesday, June 25, 2013, in the City Council Chamber, City Hall, 613 E. Broadway, 2nd Floor, Glendale,
      CA 91206 to consider the following items of business, to wit;
      1. Director of Community Development, re: Proposed "Central + Wilson" 153 Multi-Family
         Residential Rental Units and Mixed-Use "Podium" Style Design Project, to Be Located at 130
         N. Central Av.
         a. Ordinance for Introduction Approving a Development Agreement
         b. Motion Approving Stage II Design Review Subject to Comments and Conditions of Approval

      ADJOURNMENT




                                          Ardashes Kassakhian, City Clerk
                                        ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF SERVICE
Members of the public may address the City Council regarding any item in this notice. Service of the above
Call for a Special Public Meeting of the City Council, at the time and place above designated, is hereby
acknowledged, and the Notice required by Government Code Section 54956 is hereby waived:
Hour:       a.m./p.m., this       day of                                      , 20 .

      By                                                                     Title: City Council Member




                                                                                                                                                TYPED 6/21/2013 8:33 AM
                                                                                                                                                               06 25 13
                                                                                                                                                                 SP CC
                                  glendal~G"     california
                                                              0

                                  CITY OF GLENDALE, CALIFORNIA

                                          REPORT TO THE:

Joint D    City Council 1:8:1    Housing Authority   D   Successor Agency   D    Oversight Board    D

June 25, 2013

AG ENDA ITEM

Central +Wilson Project: 130 North Central Avenue -Approval of Stage II Design Review and
Development Agreement (DA)

   1) Council Ordinance for Introduction Approving a Development Agreement
   2) Council Motion to Approve the Stage II Design


COUNCIL ACTION
Public Hearing   D      Ordinance D       Consent Calendar D      Action Item 1:8:1   Report Only   0
Approved for    ~~              ZS,.ZOI) calendar

ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION

Submitted by:
Hassan Haghani, Director of Community Development



                                                                            "'AJM,Jr~
Prepared by:
Vilia Zemaitaitis, Senior Planner



                                                                    ~~
Approved by:
Scott Ochoa, City Manager

Reviewed by:
Yasmin K. Beers, Assistant City Manager

Michael J . Garcia, City Attorney

Timothy Foy, Deputy Director of Planning & Neighborhood Services

Alan Loomis, Principal Urban Designer

Mark Berry, Principal Development Officer



                                                                                       1                I
RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends the City Council introduce the ordinance approving the Development Agreement,
and adopt the motion approving the Stage II Design subm ittal for the Central +Wilson project.

BACKGROUND I ANALYSIS

EXISTING CONDITIONS

The proposed project site ("Project Site") is located on the southeast corner of Centra l and Wilson
Avenues, in the Downtown Specific Plan's Broadway Center District (Subarea A). The Project Site
features a 37 ,946 SF lot currently occupied by two commercial retail uses (Big 5 Sporting Goods
and Sit & Sleep). The applicant is also proposing to vacate the adjacent alley to the west and
incorporate it into the Project Site , for a total area of 41 ,746 square feet; the alley vacation will be
presented for Council consideration at a later date.

PROPOSED PROJECT

Holland Partners (the "Developer") is proposing to develop 153 multi-fam ily residential rental units
with either 4,900 SF of commercial space ("Option A") or five live-work units ("Option B") in a
"pod ium" type mixed-use design ("Project"). The exterior of the building remains the same whether
there is commercial or live work at the ground floor along Central Avenue. The "U"-shaped build ing
features studio , one , two , and three-bedroom units that surround a central courtyard. The Project is
six stories with an overall height of approximately 85 feet (Exhibit 1).

Projects within the "Broadway Center" District, Subarea A may use any combination of incentives to
increase the perm itted height from six stories/95 feet to 12 stories/185 feet, and the FAR from 3.0 to
5.2. The Project height is six stories/85 feet, which is in keeping w ith the permitted story/height
limits, but the proposed 4.4 FAR exceeds the limits permitted by right. The Project is eligible for a
height and FAR bonus per Chapter 7 of the DSP by offering 3,398 SF of publicly accessible open
space (1 ,311 SF greater than the minimum requirement of 5% of the lot area or 2,087 SF). The
Project's additional public open space is comprised of a covered plaza at the Central-Wilson
Avenue corner.

Code-required parking is provided for either Option A or B. The Project would provide 223 spaces
consisting of 191 standard spaces and 24 spaces in a tandem configuration. The majority of the
parking w ill be in the two subterranean levels of the parking garage, with 41 spaces provided at the
ground floor level. Two vehicular access points are proposed: one along the southerly property line
on Central Avenue and another on Wilson Avenue where the alley is to be vacated. The residential
parking will be separated from the guests and commercial customers w ith a gate.

STAGE II DESIGN REVIEW

City Council approved the Stage I (Schematic) Design Review on March 19, 2013 without additional
comment. The Project's Stage II Design subm ission has been reviewed by City staff and evaluated
based on the design standards, guidelines, policies, and intentions of the DSP (Exhibit 2). Staff has
determined the Project is ready for Stage II Final Design consideration by the City Council.

The Centrai+Wilson proposal will be the third in a sequence of transformative buildings on Wilson
Avenue by the same development team. The first and largest project , Brand+Wilson, will occupy

                                                                                                      2
the long-vacant parcel in the middle the Brand Boulevard retail experience, and appropriately will
have the most expressive architectural treatment of the three projects. The second, Orange+
Wilson, is a six-story 166-unit residential-only project, planned for the site occupied by the recently
demolished one-story Joann's House of Fabric building. Centrai+Wilson completes this lineup and
echoes many of the design themes found in the first two buildings.

The Centrai+Wilson building has a basic U-shaped footprint with an east-facing courtyard, which
mirrors and extends the courtyard of the adjacent Orange+Wilson project. As such, the building has
a six-story presence facing the two streets, although the courtyard overlooks Central Avenue
through a two-story high orange portal that punctures the fa9ade. The Central fa9ade has an almost
commercial appearance, designed as a large single mass or "bar" floating above two-story high
storefronts and accented by a strict grid of alternating grey and black projecting balconies as well
as the orange portal. The bar is open-ended at the north and south with expansive floor-to-ceiling
windows, creating a five-story high picture window that echoes a similar design feature on the
Brand+Wilson project. The Wilson fa9ade, in contrast, is more "residential" in character, with the
residential lobby and lounges opening to the sidewalk. Above, the fa9ade is more playful with an
asymmetrical pattern of cantilevered balconies and material finishes, including cement fiber board
siding elements that compliment similar features on the adjacent Orange+Wilson project.

Together, the three +Wilson projects, along with the proposed 172-room Marriott Courtyard Hotel
directly north of the site, will dramatically change the look and functionality of Wilson Avenue.
These projects will bring improved and wider sidewalks, new storefronts uses and additional
population to Wilson , making it the primary pedestrian connections between Brand Boulevard and
Central Avenue and one of the more significant streets in the Downtown.

The project is consistent with the Downtown Specific Plan (" DSP") standards and guidelines, and
identical to the well-developed Stage I design unanimously approved on March 5, 2013. Approval of
the Stage II design is recommended with the following conditions:

1) Balconies overlooking Central Avenue shall be fabricated from architectural metal, alucobond,
   cement panels or a similarly high-quality material as approved by the Principal Urban Designer.

2) Planters along the sidewalk shall be clad in architectural metal, tilework, burnished block,
   finished concrete or a similarly high-quality material as approved by the Principal Urban
   Designer.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

Development Agreements are regulated by State statute (Government Code ДД65864 through
65869.5). This proposed Development Agreement (DA) is a typical development agreement that
"freezes" and vests zoning and other requirements in order to provide certainty between the
entitlement and building permit phase of a complex development (Exhibit 3).

The Developer is requesting a DA to preserve the Project's entitlements for a 14 year term . The
property is currently occupied by a retail tenant under a lease with two 5 year renewal options. T he
current lease term expires in November 2014, and if the tenant exercises both lease options the
term could end in November 2024. The DA will vest development rights for implementation of the
Project for the lease term (including the option periods) plus two years following expiration the lease
to assure adequate time for plan check review and financing once property becomes vacant.


                                                                                                   3
The DA provides two pre-payment options for payment of the Parks and Library Development
Impact Fees ("Fees"): (i) the Developer may pay 100% of the Fees at the close of escrow on the
property or (ii) the Developer may pay 50% of the Fees within the one year anniversary of the
recording date of the DA with payment of the remaining balance payable at any time after the initial
fee payment but prior to the issuance of building permits. Each 50% payment will be at the rate in
pace at the time of payment. If the Developer chooses to forgo the pre-payment options, the
Developer will be responsible for payment of the Parks and Library Development Impact Fees per
Ordinance 5575 (or as it may be amended by City Council). The early Fees payments will not be
eligible for a refund if the Project is not constructed or if the scope of the Project is reduced.

The DA will provide acknowledgements, agreements and assurances on the part of the Developer
and City. As noted, the DA provides two non-refundable pre-payment options for the Parks and
Development Impact Fees; all other fees, including any future impact fees the City might adopt, are
not fixed by the DA. The Project will be subject to those Building Codes and other uniform codes in
effect at the t ime the Developer applies for building permits.

T he DSP requires that developers utilizing the incentive program enter into either a statutory
development agreement with the City or a covenant. The DA vests the right to proceed with the
Project using the open space incentive for the term of the DA. The DA incorporates the incentive
permitting an increase in FAR, the Stage II Final Design, and a scope of development assuring the
incentive is only applicable to the Project as approved by the City Council.

As required by State statute, the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed Development
Agreement on June 5, 2013 and voted to recommend its approval to City Council.

CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA) REVIEW

An addendum has been prepared to the previously certified Downtown Specific Plan Environmental
Impact Report (Exhibit 4). The addendum states that Project does not result in any new adverse
impacts, nor does it increase the severity of any impacts identified in the EIR adopted by City
Council in October 2006.

PUBLIC NOTICE

The Code requires publication of public notices of when the Council considers approval of
entitlements such as design review. Staff has published all required notices in the Glendale News
Press and has mailed copies of the notices to all property owners and occupants within the 500' of
the project. A public notice has also been posted on-site.

FISCAL IMPACT

The fiscal impact of the Project is consistent with other high density residential projects. When
completed, the Project will generate new property taxes and fees.

The Developer estimates a Project value of $23.8M. The City receives 17.76% of the property tax.
Based on the estimated value, the Project would generate an estimated $42,300 annually in property
tax to the General Fund. Additionally, the Project will also pay an in lieu Art Fee of approximately
$238,000, Parks and Library Development Impact Fees of $1,106,000 (if paid by December 151), school
fees in the amount of $505,600, and approximately $388,000 in building permit/plan check fees. There
will be an undetermined cost associated with the increased public service delivery to the Project.
                                                                                                    4
A summary of the anticipated Project generated revenue is estimated below:

       Property Tax (annual)                               $42,300
       In Lieu Art Fee                                    $238,000
       Park and Library Impact Fee                      $1,106,000
       Permit/Plan Check Fees                             $388,000
       School Fee                                         $505,600

ALTERNATIVES

The City Council has the following alternatives to consider associated with the Stage II Design
Submission:

   и Alternative 1: Approve the Stage II Design Submission without comment.

   и Alternative 2: Approve the Stage II Design Submission subject to design recommendations
     made by the City Council.

   и Alternative 3: Deny approval of the Stage II Design Submission and direct a redesign of the
     Project.

The City Council may also consider any other alternatives to design review submission not
proposed by staff.

The City Council has the following alternatives to consider associated with the Development
Agreement:

   и Alternative 1: Introduce ordinance for adoption.

   и Alternative 2: Take no action on the ordinance relating to the Development Agreement.

The City Council may consider an alternative not proposed by staff.


CAMPAIGN DISCLOSURE

In accordance with Council direction pursuant to the recently adopted City Campaign Finance
Ordinance, the names and business addresses of the members of the board of directors, the
chairperson, CEO, COO, CFO, subcontractors and any person or entity with 10% interest or more in
the company proposed for contract in this Agenda Item Report is attached as Exhibit 5.

EXHIBITS

Exhibit 1      Stage I Design Submission
Exhibit 2      Urban Design Studio's Memo
Exhibit 3      Development Agreement
Exhibit 4      Planning Commission Resolution
Exhibit 5      Addendum to the 2006 DSP EIR
Exhibit 6      Campaign Finance Disclosure

                                                                                                  5
              PUBLIC NOTICE OF CITY COUNCIL HEARING FOR
 STAGE II DESIGN REVIEW AND STATUTORY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR
        130 NORTH CENTRAL AVENUE (CENTRAL+WILSON PROJECT)

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN:

Project Title:        Centrai+Wilson Project

Project Location:     130 N. Central Avenue, located on the southeast corner of Central and
                      Wilson Avenues

Project Description: The applicant is proposing to develop 153 multi-family residential rental
units with either 4,900 SF of commercial space ("Option A") or five live-work units ("Option B")
with 223 parking spaces in a "podium" type mixed-use building. The site is located within in the
Downtown Specific Plan's ("DSP") Broadway Center District and features a total area of
41,746 square feet (after alley vacation). The exterior of the building remains the same
whether there is commercial or live work at the ground floor along Central Avenue. The "U"-
shaped building features studio, one, two, and three-bedroom units that surround a central
courtyard. The project is six stories with an overall height of approximately 85 feet.

Development Agreement: A Development Agreement is being proposed between the City of
Glendale and HPG Central & Wilson, LLC {the applicant) for the project, pursuant to
Government Code ДД65864 through 65869.5 (the "Development Agreement Statutes"). The
Development Agreement provides a 14 year entitlement period for the project, outlines the
FAR bonus being requested by the applicant under the Downtown Specific Plan's Incentives
and Bonuses, Public Open Space program (DSP Chapter 7.2.4), and provides pre-payment
options for the impact fees. The Planning Commission reviewed the Development Agreement
at the June 51h Planning Commission meeting and recommended approval by City Council.

Environmental: An addendum to the previously certified Environmental Impact Report for the
Downtown Specific Plan (DSP EIR) was prepared for the project.

CITY COUNCIL HEARING: The Stage II Design Review and the Development Agreement will
be reviewed by the City Council in the Council Chambers in City Hall, 613 East Broadway on
the June 25, 2013, at or after the hour of 3:00 p.m.

Copies of the staff report, the Development Agreement and all environmental documents will
be available for review in the Planning Division office, Room 103 of the Municipal Services
Building, 633 East Broadway. If you have any questions, please contact Vilia Zemaitaitis,
Senior Planner, at 818-937-8154 or via email at vzemaitaitis@ci.glendale.ca.us.

Any person having any interest in any property affected by the proposed Development
Agreement may appear at the above hearing either in person or by counsel or both. Any
person protesting may file a duly signed and acknowledged written protest with the Director of
Community Development not later than the hour set for public hearing before the Planning
Commission. "Acknowledged" shall mean a declaration of property ownership (or occupant if
not owner) under penalty of perjury. If you challenge the decision of this project in court, per
Government Code Д65009, you are limited to raising only those issues you or someone else
raised at the public hearing described in this notice, or in written correspondence delivered to
the City of Glendale, at or prior to the public hearing.

Applicant: HPG Central & Wilson, LLC

                                    Ardashes Kassakhian
                             The City Clerk of the City of Glendale
 1                                        ORDINANCE NO. - - - --
 2                           AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
                        CITY OF GLENDALE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
 3
                          DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE
 4                     CITY OF GLENDALE AND GFC GLENDALE ASSOCIATES, LLC

 5
            WHEREAS, on June 5, 2013, the Planning Commission of the City of Glendale considered
 6
     and recommended that the Glendale City Council approve a Development Agreement ("DA'') by and
 7
     between the City of Glendale ("City") and GFC Glendale Associates, LLC ("Developer"), for
 8

 9   development of a mixed-use project consisting of 153 multi-family rental units, approximately 4,900

10   square feet of ground floor retail-commercial uses or five (5) live/work units, additional pubic open

11   area as part of the Downtown Specific Plan Incentive program, plus associated amenities, all in a 6-

12   story structure with on-site parking ("Centrai+Wilson Project" or "Project"), located 130 N. Central

13   Avenue ("Property"). TheDA is hereby incorporated by reference into the provisions of this

14   Ordinance; and
15
            WHEREAS , the Developer intends on conveying the Property to HPG Central +Wilson, LLC ,
16
     a Washington limited liability company ("HPG"), whereupon Developer will assign the DA to HPG
17
     and HPG will undertake development of the Project; and
18
            WHEREAS , after due notice, the Planning Commission and the City Council conducted
19
     public hearings on this matter; and
20
            WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 65864 et seq., the City Planning
21

22   Commission has transmitted its findings and recommendations to the City Council; and

23          WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed and considered the DA and the findings and

24   recommendations of the City Planning Commission; and

25          WHEREAS, an environmental impact report ("Program EIR") was prepared and certified by
26
     the City for the Downtown Specific Plan which incorporates the area in which the Project is to be
27
28   J:\FILES\DOCFILES\ORD\ 130 N Central DA Ordinance 062513.wpd


                                                               1
                                                                                     1 AI
 1   developed, and an Addendum to the Program EIR was prepared in connection with the Project and

 2   DA pursuant to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"); and
 3           WHEREAS, the City has duly considered all terms and conditions of the DA and believes
 4
     that implementation of the DA is consistent with the City's General Plan and Downtown Specific
 5
     Plan, and is necessary to implement the Downtown Specific Plan Incentive for additional public
 6
     open space that will be incorporated into the Project in exchange for added floor area ratio, and that
 7
     the DA is in the best interests of the City and the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, and in
 8
     accord with the public purposes and provisions of applicable state and local law.
 9
             NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE,
10

11   CALIFORNIA:

12           1. The City Council hereby finds and determines as follows:

13           (a)      The City has complied with the applicable requirements of the California

14   Environmental Qualify Act.
15           (b)      The Development Agreement is within the scope of the Program EIR and Addendum
16
     thereto for the Project.
17
             (c)      The Development Agreement is consistent with the City's General Plan and with the
18
     Downtown Specific Plan.
19
             (d)      The Development Ag reement fully complies with all currently applicable provisions of
20
     the Glendale Municipal Code.
21
             (e)      The Development Agreement will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and
22

23   general welfare because it encourages the construction of a project which is desirable and

24   beneficial to the public.

25           (f)      The Development Agreement is compatible with the orderly development of property

26   in the surrounding area.

27
28    J:\FILES\DOCFILES\ORD\130 N Central DA Ordinance 062513.wpd


                                                               2
 1           (g)     The Development Agreement constitutes a lawful present exercise of the City's police

 2   power and complies with all applicable City and State regulations governing Development
 3
     Agreements.
 4
             (h)     The Development Agreement is necessary to strengthen the public planning process
 5
     and to reduce the public and private costs of development uncertainty.
 6
             (i)     The development, construction, ownership, and operation of the Centrai+Wilson
 7
     Project is consistent with the Development Agreement.
 8
                     The Development Agreement implements the Public Open Space incentive from the
 9
     Downtown Specific Plan.
10

11          2.       The City Council hereby approves the Development Agreement and authorizes and

12   directs the City Manager to execute it on behalf of the City of Glendale, and further directs the City

13   Clerk to record the Development Agreement and this Ordinance with the County Recorder within ten

14   (10) days of its execution.

15          3.       The City Clerk shall certify as to the passage of this Ordinance and cause the same
16   to be published in the Glendale Newspress, consistent with requirements of applicable State and
17
     local law.
18
            4. This Ordinance shall be effective 30 days after the date of adoption.
19

20
            Adopted this _ __ day o f - - - - - - - - -' 2013.
21

22

23
                                                        Mayor
24
25   ATTEST:

26

27        City Clerk
28   J:\FILES\DOCFILES\ORD\130 N Central DA Ordinance 062513.wpd


                                                              3
 1   STATE OF CALIFORNIA                       )
                                               )        ss
 2   COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES                     )
 3
            I, ARDASHES KASSAKHIAN, City Clerk of the City of Glendale, certify that the foregoing
 4

 5   Ordinance No. ____ was adopted by the Council of the City of Glendale, California, at a regular

 6   meeting held on the _ _ _ _ day of _ _ _ _ _ _ _, 2013, and that same was adopted by

 7   the following vote:

 8

 9          Ayes:
10
            Noes:
11
            Absent:
12
            Abstain:
13

14

15                                                                 City Clerk
16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27
28   J:\FILES\DOCFILES\ORD\130 N Central DA Ordinance 062513.wpd


                                                              4
                                      M0   I! 0   N



      Moved by Council Member                                      , seconded by Council

Member                           , that the Stage II final design submittal for the mixed-

use commercial and multi-fam ily residential rental project to be located at 130 North

Central Avenue (the "Central + Wilson Project") be, and the same is hereby approved

as outlined in the staff report from the Director of Community Development dated June

25, 2013, including comments and recommendations from the City's Urban Designer

incorporated therein, and subject any Council comments and/or conditions thereon.



      Vote as follows:

             Ayes:

              Noes:

             Absent:

             Abstain:




                                                         j:\files\docfiles\mtn\130 n ce ntral stage ii mtn.doc




                                                                                           1 BI
                                                                              EXHIBIT 2

                      CITY OF GLENDALE CALIFORNIA
                   INTERDEPARTMENTAL COMMUN ICATI ON


To:    Glendale City Council

From: Alan Loomis, Principal Urban Designer, Community Development Department
      Vilia Zemaitaitis, Senior Planner, Community Development Department

CC:    Mark Berry, Principal Development Officer, Community Development Department

Date: June 23, 2013


       Re:    Stage 2- Design Development Review for 130 North Central Avenue
              Central + Wilson Project by Holland Partners


The following is an evaluation of the above project against the design standards, guidelines,
policies and intentions of the Downtown Specific Plan based on drawings prepared by Carrier
Johnson, Inc. , dated April29, 2013. Summary comments are provided on the final page of this
memo.

Context

The project is located at the southeast corner of Central and Wilson Avenues in the Broadway
Center District of the Downtown Specific Plan (DSP), directly west of the Orange+Wilson and
Brand+Wilson projects by the same development team. Across the street to the north is the site
of the proposed 11-story 172-room Marriott Courtyard Hotel and to the south is a multi-story
office building fronting Broadway. With the completion of these surrounding development
proposals, the DSP's vision for this area of downtown will essentially be complete, with the
exception of the low-scale retail properties across Centra l Avenue to the west. Under the DSP,
the west side of Central could be developed with 6-story mixed-use buildings, similar to the
proposed project and its neighbors.

Both Wilson and Central Avenues as they front the site are identified by the DSP as "Secondary
Frontage Streets. " This designation imposes some design and use restrictions for the ground
floor, but allows for residential stoops, live-work units, as well as retail uses and storefront
designs.

Project Description

и Land Use (see DSP Chapter 3)- The project is a 6-story, mixed-use building that includes
  153 residential units and either 4 ,900 sf of commercial space (Option A) or five llve-work
  spaces (Option B) fronting Central Avenue . These uses are permitted within the DSP
  Broadway Center (Subarea A) district.
                                                                                                    Council Stage 2- Design Development Review for 160 North Central Avenue
                                                                                                                                                              June 23, 2013


Project Design I Design Review Analysis

Existing Buildings, Adaptive Reuse, and/or Historic Preservation

и Existing Buildings (see DSP Section 4.2.2)- The project site currently features two, one-story
  retail buildings: Big 5 Sporting Goods and Sit 'n Sleep. Both businesses will be relocated and
  the buildings will be demolished as part of this project.

Overall Site Plan

и Site Plan- The building has a basic U or C shaped plan, with a central courtyard opening to
   the east facing the Orange+Wilson project across an existing dead-end alley. The applicant
   proposes to vacate this alley to increase the total project site to 41 ,7 46 square feet. However,
   the vacated alley will still serve as primary vehicle access for the residents. A secondary
   driveway for commercial patrons and loading vehicles is located off Central Avenue and is
   intended for right-in I right-out traffic. The parking structure is obscured from the public
   sidewalks by the residential lobby, lounges, and storefronts that face the streets . Pedestrian
   access from the garage to the sidewalk is provided through an elegant passage that leads to
   the project's public plaza open space at the street corner. The project features a courtyard for
   the residents on the second floor that will connect with and extend the courtyard of the
 . Orange+Wilson project. Mitigating the sense claustrophobia the two mirrored courtyards
   might create is the break between the two buildings created by the vacated alley, and a two-
   story, cut-through hole or portal in the center of the Central elevation that visually connects
   the courtyards to the street.

и Setbacks (see DSP Section 4.2.7)- All projects in the DSP are required to maintain an
  average 12 foot setback from the curb to the ground floor building face. Although the
  proposed building occupies the majority of the site area, the facade is set back the required
  distance from the curb, with wide sidewalks on Central and landscaped parkways and
  planters on Wilson. The project features a larger setback at the corner of Central and Wilson
  creating a public plaza area that is a reflective nod to the approved hotel common plaza area
  directly north across Wilson Avenue.                 и

и Open Space and Landscape (see DSP Chapter 5)- The DSP requires 10 percent of the
  gross site area be dedicated for open space, with an additional 140 square feet for each
  residential unit. Of this open space, an area equal to five percent of the gross site should be
  usable and accessible to the general public. This may be provided by additional sidewalk
  area , outdoor cafes, lobby forecourts, or public gardens. The remaining open space may be
  comprised of individual balconies, private courtyards, roof decks, or street patios . As detailed
  in the following chart, the project exceeds these basic numerical standards .
                                                                                          . ..................................... """""!""""""""""""' .................................. .......................- ..................._ ,,,,,_ _ .......- .........,_


                                                                                                                                                              DSP Standards                                                                                                          Project                            ---~
                                                                                                                                                          Broadway Center District                                                                                                   Design                                 I
 I Publicly Accessible Open Space                                                                                                                        5% x 41,746 sf= 2,087 sf                                                                                                   3,256 sf
 I (5% of gross site area)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......... ..........._,,,............ . и--и..~


 IT
 1
           otal Open
     (1 0% of gross site area + 140 sf I unit)
                                                 Spac~ (i~~l~ding above)                                                            1
                                                                                                                                           +      S~ci's:                     4
                                                                                                                                                                              x     ~ is4~n~:;~;;~~~~~~):f)
                                                                                                                                                                          =total 26 ,295 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26,322 sf

 i__"""''"'-""""""""'"''__,.,,.........................- - -и- ии- ииииииииии- ииииии-   иииииииииииииииииииииии
                                                                                                               иии-   ии-ииииии-   1иии-ии-и- ии- -ии-                   ии-и-            ииииии-ииииииииии- -ииииии                                        ,,,,,,,__J, иииииииииии--иии-ии-ии-ииииииииии- -иииии-иии__j


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page 2 of 6
                                      Council Stage 2- Design Development Review for 160 North Central Avenue
                                                                                                June 23, 2013


     The public open space is comprised of a plaza adjacent to the lobby at the north-east corner
     of the lot (tucked under the building and connecting the garage to the sidewalk), a patio area
     outside the residents' lobby/lounge, and the setbacks along the Central and Wilson facades.
     As indicated in the diagrams and calculations on page A 1.1 of the submission , the public
     open space area exceeds the minimum limit by 1,169 sf or 2.8%. Therefore , the project is
     eligible for a height and density bonus according to the standards of Chapter 7 in the DSP.

     Common open space for building residents is located on two elevated courtyard levels and
     within three amenity rooms. There is a 4,650 sf courtyard on the mezzanine level along the
     east property line which will connect with the recently approved mezzanine courtyard deck of
     the Orange +Wilson project to create a combined courtyard. The mezzanine level also
     includes a pair of amenity rooms to augment the ground level lounge. At the second level in
     the center of the U-shaped building is an open east-west courtyard (4,962 sf). The project
     also provides 8,042 sf of private balconies in addition to the above shared common spaces
     (for a total open space of 14,881 sf). Note: The open space calculations presume Option B,
     with 153 residential units and five live-work units, for a total of 158 units at 140 sf per unit. If
     Option A is developed, the project exceeds the requirement by 700 sf

        The proposal includes a detailed landscape plan, which illustrates street-level planters and
        enhanced sidewalk paving, as well as planters, seating, cabanas, and a pool on the courtyard
        levels.

Mass and Scale

и Height and Massing (see DSP Sections 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 4 .2.5)- As detailed in the following
  chart, the Broadway Center district of DSP has two different height and density thresholds,
  depending on whether project participates in the voluntary incentive program outline in
  Chapter 7 of the DSP. The project is being submitted at 6 stories I 84 ft high with a 4.4 FAR.
 ~----и-и-и-и-и           ..иииииии


 I
 r      Height by right




                                                                          - - +иии- ии
                                                                                     и -ии-            ................ ~

 I FAR (w/ incentives)
 l,ии
                                                    5.20 FAR                              4.4 FAR
                                                                                                                 J
        The proposed building has a basic U-shaped footprint, with an east-facing courtyard that
        mirrors and extends the courtyard of the adjacent Orange + Wilson project. As such, the
        building has a six-story presence facing the two streets; however, the courtyard overlooks
        Central Avenue through a two-story high orange portal that punctures the fa<;:ade. The Central
        fa<;:ade is designed as a large single mass or "bar" floating above two-story high storefronts
        and is accented with alternating grey and black projecting balconies, as well as the orange
        portal. The bar is open-ended at the north and south with expansive floor-to-ceiling windows,
        creating a five-story high picture window that echoes a similar design feature on the
        Brand+Wilson project. As the building turns the corner to face Wilson Avenue, the massing is
        broken up by continuous bands and balconies, in addition to various vertical elements that
        compliment similar features on the adjacent Orange+Wilson project.


                                                                                                 Page 3 of6
                                  Council Stage 2- Design Development Review for 160 North Central Avenue
                                                                                            June 23 , 2013


и Landmark Architectural Features (see DSP Section 4.2.6)- The DSP does not identify this
  location for landmark architectural features, and the proposal accordingly does not include
  any distinctive "iconic" design elements.

и Frontage and Faqade Design (see DSP Section 4.2.8)- Central and Wilson Avenues are
  designated Secondary Frontage Street by the DSP. This designation places an emphasis on
  a quality sidewalk environment for the pedestrian, but is fairly flexible regarding ground level
  uses (in contrast to Primary Frontage Streets, such as Brand Boulevard, which require retail
  or restaurant uses). Consistent with this designation, the building has an almost commercial
  appearance facing Central, with glazed commercial spaces or live-work units fronting the
  sidewalks and a defined "street wall" elevation organized into a strict grid of windows and
  projecting balconies. The Wilson fac;ade, in contrast, is more "residential" in character, with
  the residential lobby and lounges opening to the sidewalk. Above, the fac;ade is more playful
  with an asymmetrical pattern of cantilevered balconies and material finishes, including
  cement fiber board siding.

Building Design and Detailing

и Materials and Colors (see DSP Section 4.2.8)- This building is designed in a similar palette
  of materials, colors and details to the developer's previous two proposals east on Wilson
  Avenue. The exterior finishes are predominately sand-finish plaster and cement siding with
  painted metal railings, dual-pane insulated glass windows and doors at all apartment units,
  single-pane clear storefront with anodized aluminum frames, and brushed aluminum light
  fixtures and signage as accent materials. Whereas the Central Avenue fac;ade is
  predominately plaster with windows and balconies, the other three elevations include cement
  fiber board panels and plaster walls above the aluminum storefront window systems and tile
  cladding along the ground floor level. At the "corner joint" between ground floor
  commercial/live-work unit along Central Avenue and the residential lobby and leasing office
  along Wilson Avenue two portions of the building, the residential lobby is highlighted with a
  tile or stone-veneer finish.

  However, material call-outs are missing on some key details, such as the balconies
  overlooking Central Avenue and the planters at the sidewalk level. To ensure that these
  features will offer a meaningful contrast to the plaster and cement siding, these elements
  should be fabricated from architectural metals, alcuobond panels, burnished block or other
  high-quality materials.

и Lighting and Signs- The package includes lighting plans illustrating various decorative sconces
  and linear light fixtures accenting the building's key architectural features. The proposal
  suggests Central Avenue storefronts will utilize free-standing letters mounted on the long
  marquee canopy that shades the glass; should the ground floor be occupied later with multiple
  tenants, the building may require a sign program.

и Public Art (see DSP Section 5.5)- There is no public art proposed for the project. The
  applicant intends to pay the in-lieu fee equivalent to one percent of the value of the project.

Mobility

и Mobility (see DSP Chapter 6) -The DSP designates Central Avenue as a Vehicular Priority
  Street with primary emphasis on moving automobile traffic to regional freeway networks and
  other communities. The project complies with this requirement in that the driveway entrance


                                                                                              Page 4 of 6
                                                                                       Council Stage 2- Design Development Review for 160 North Central Avenue
                                                                                                                                                 June 23, 2013

         is located at the farthest point possible away from the Central and Wilson intersection.
         Meanwhile, DSP designates Wilson Avenue as a Pedestrian Priority Street with primary
         emphasis on creating excellent conditions for pedestrians. The arrangement of residential
         lobby, leasing office and amenity rooms facing the Wilson sidewalk promotes this desired
         pedestrian activity, as does the covered plaza where these ground level uses turn the corner
         to the Central Avenue storefronts. The project will also have to comply with the Trip
         Reduction and Tr~vel Demand Measures set out in the Zoning Code (GMC 30.32.171) for
         Tier 1 projects, accommodating a minimum of 1 short-term bicycle parking space per 20 units
         and a minimum of 1 long-term bicycle storage space per 4 units. According to the submitted
         plans, the Project will provide 16 short-term bicycle parking spaces and 40 long-term spaces,
         based on a total of 158 units (including the five live-work units).

Incentives

Incentives for Additional Height and Density (see DSP Chapter 7)- Projects in the Broadway
Center District (Subarea A) may utilize any combination of incentives to increase the permitted
height from 6 stories to 12 stories, and from 3.00 FAR to 5.20 FAR. The project employs the
"Public Open Space" incentive as defined in the DSP, Section 7.2.2 and based on the following:
the project provides 3256 square feet of open space located at the ground level and accessible
to the general public, approximately 1418 square feet in excess of the required 2088 square
feet.

Summary Table of DSP standards and Project Design


                                                                                                                                                   DSP Standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Project Design
                                                                                                                                              Broadway Center District (A)
                                       - - --и-иииииииииии-                 иииииии

I Height                                                                                                                                                                       6 stories I 95 ft                                                                           6 stories I 84 ft
L - - - - - -иииииии- - -
    Height (w/ incentives)                                                                                                                                               12 stories I 185 ft

    FAR                                                                                                                                                                              3.00
! - - - - и и--и-ии.................- ....----.............                                                                                                                          иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии-- ииииииииииииииии- иииииии . - - !ииии- ииииии- -иииииииииииии-ииии--иииииии--иииии- -ии

I
!
  FAR (w/ incentives)
                .,___,,...........                                             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._
                                                                                                                                                                                     5.20                                                                                                         4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .-.. . . . . . . .-+- . .. . .___. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-         j

I Publicly Accessible Open Space                                                                                                                     5% x 41 ,746 sf:::: 2,087 sf                                                                                                        3,256 sf
I (5% of gross site area)
j,..., _ _ _ _..,_ __ ,,                               ии-    ии-ии-ии- -ии-ии
                                                                             ииииии"""'""''''".                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .. .......

I Total Open Space (including above)                                                                                                           (10% x 41 ,746 sf:::: 4,175 sf)

                       ~roи~-~. . ~.ite ar~~=-~40~~- :. ~~it) и и и и -~и- и ( ~~ ~~~t;t~~Ц~.i~~-~-~f _и_1 -~0~~-- 'ии-
                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                        2                                                           26,322 sf
1
.... (   10% of__




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 5 of6
                                  Council Stage 2 - Design Development Review for 160 North Central Avenue
                                                                                             June 23, 2013


Summary Comments, Recommendations and Draft Record of Decision

The Central+W ilson proposal will be the third in a sequence of transformative buildings on
Wilson Avenue by the same development team. The first and largest project, Brand+Wilson, will
occupy the long-vacant parcel in the middle the Brand Boulevard retail experience, and
appropriately will have the most expressive architectural treatment of the three projects. The
second, Orange +Wilson, is a six-story 166-unit residential-only project, planned for the site
occupied by the recently demolished one-story Joann's House of Fabric building.
Centrai+Wilson completes this lineup and echoes many of the design themes found in the first
two buildings.

The Centrai+Wilson building has a basic U-shaped footprint with an east-facing courtyard,
which mirrors and extends the courtyard of the adjacent Orange+Wilson project. As such , the
building has a six-story presence facing the two streets, although the courtyard overlooks
Central Avenue through a two-story high orange portal that punctures the fac;;ade. The Central
fac;;ade has an almost commercial appearance, designed as a large single mass or "bar" floating
above two-story high storefronts and accented by a strict grid of alternating grey and black
projecting balconies as well as the orange portal. The bar is open-ended at the north and south
with expansive floor-to-ceiling windows , creating a five-story high picture window that echoes a
similar design feature on the Brand+Wilson project. The Wilson fat;ade, in contrast, is more
"residential" in character, with the residential lobby and lounges opening to the sidewalk. Above,
the fat;ade is more playful with an asymmetrical pattern of cantilevered balconies and material
finishes, including cement fiber board siding elements that compliment similar features on the
adjacent Orange+Wilson project.

Together, the three +Wilson projects, along with the proposed 172-room Marriott Courtyard
Hotel directly north of the site, will dramatically change the look and functionality of Wilson
Avenue. These projects will bring improved and wider sidewalks, new storefronts uses and
additional population to Wilson, making it the primary pedestrian connections between Brand
Boulevard and Central Avenue and one of the more significant streets in the Downtown.

The project is consistent with the Downtown Specific Plan standards and guidelines, and
identical to the well-developed Stage I design unanimously approved on March 5, 2013.
Approval of the Stage II design is recommended with the following conditions:

1) Balconies overlooking Central Avenue shall be fabricated from architectural metal,
   alucobond, cement panels or a similarly high-quality material as approved by the Principal
   Urban Designer.

2) Planters along the sidewalk shall be clad in architectural metal, tilework, burnished block,
   finished concrete or a similarly high-quality material as approved by the Principal Urban
   Designer.




                                                                                              Page 6 of 6
                                                                                              EXHIBIT 3



EXEMPT FROM RECORDER'S FEES
Pursuant to Government CodeДД 6103 and 27383

Recording requested by and when recorded retum to:

City Clerk
City of Glendale
613 E. Broadway, Room 110
Glendale, CA 91206

                                                           (SPACE ABOVe FOR RECORUER'S USE)




                           DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                           (Central + Wilson)

                                          BY AND BETWEEN

                                   CITY OF GLENDALE,
                                 a California municipal corporation,

                                                     and    ии


                           GFC GLENDALE ASSOCIATES,
                              a California limited liability corporation




              THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE RECORDED WITHIN TEN DAYS
               OP EXECUTION BY ALL PARTIES HERETO PURSUANT TO
                THE REQUIREMENTS OF GOVERNMENT CODE Д65868.5
                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                           Page
1.           Recitals .......................................................................................................................... 1
2.           Definitions ..................................................................................................................... 4
3.           Binding Effect. ............................................................................................................... 7
4.           Parks and Library Impact Fees ...................................................................................... 7
5.           Applicable Rules; Reserved Powers .............................................................................. 7
6.           Limitation on Application of Conflicting Requirements ............................................... 9
7.           Acknowledgments, Agreements and Assurances on the Part ofDeveloper.. .............. .. 9
8.           Acknowledgments, Agreements and Assurances on the Part of the City ..................... 9
9.           Acknowledgements, Agreements, and Assurances on the Part of the Parties .... ........... 9
10.          Administl'ative Changes and Amendments ................................................................. 10
ll.          Cooperation and Implementation ................................................................................ lO
12.          Compliance; Default; Termination; Modifications and Amendments ........................ 11
13.          Administration ............................................................................................................. 13
14.          Term of Agreement ..................................................................................................... 13
15.          Administration of Agreements and Resolution of Disputes ........................................ 13
16.          Injunctive Relief .................................................................................................... ...... 13
17           No Damages Relief Against City ................................................................................ 14
18.          No Personal 1,iability ............................................................. ............................. ......... 14
19.          Notices .................................................... ..................................................................... 14
20.          Severability and Termination ...................................................................................... 15
21.          Time ofEssence ........................................................................................................... 15
22.          Enforced Delay; Extension of Time for Performance ................................................. 15
23.          Waiver ......................................................................................................................... 15
24.          No Third Party Beneficiaries ....................................................................................... l6
25.          Attorneys' Fees ...................................................................... ...................................... 16
26.          Applicable Law ................ .. .................................... .... .... ..................................... ......... 16
27.          Authority to Execute; Binding Effect.. ........................................................................ 16
28.          Entire Agreement; Conflicts ........................................................................................ 16
29.          City Approvals and Actions .............. .......................................................................... 16
30.          Counterparts ................................................................................................................. 16
31.          Integration .................................................................................................................... 16
32.          Interpretation ............................................................................................................... 17
33.          Legal Advicc ................................................................................................................ 17
34.          Conflicts of Interest .................................................. ..... .............................................. 17
35.          Assignment ................ .................................................................................................. 17
32.          Negation of Agency ..................................................................................................... 17

Exhibits                                                                                                       Page First Referenced

        Exhibit A             Project Site ....................................................................................... I
        Exhibit B             Legal Description ............................................................................ 1
        Exhibit C             Project .............................................................................................. I



DA Ccntrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
                                   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        This Development Agreement ("Agreement") is made in Los Angeles County, California
as of                20 13, by and between the CITY OF GLENDALE, a municipal corporation
and charter city (the "City"), and GFC Glendale Associates, LLC, a California Limited Liability
Company ("Developer"). Together, the City and the Developer shall be referred to as the
"Parties."

       1.       Recitals. This Agreement is made with respect to the following facts and for the
following purposes, each of which is acknowledged as true and correct by the Parties and each of
which is fully incorporated and made part of the Agreement:

       (a)    The City is authorized, pursuant to Govenunent Code ДД65864 through 65869.5
("Development Agreement Statutes"), and under its authority as a charter city to enter into
binding agreements with persons or entities having legal or equitable interests in real property for
the development of such property in order to establish certainty in the development process;

        (b)    Developer is the cunent ovmer of real property, consisting of an approximate
41,746 square foot project site (including a vacated adjacent alley), located at 130 North Central
Avenue, and surrounded by North Central Avenue to the west, 225 West Broadway, 200 West
Wilson Avenue to the east, and West Wilson Avenue to the north, in the City of Glendale (the
"Property"). The Property is depicted in Exhibit A ("Project Site") and legally defined in Exhibit
B ("Legal Description"), both of which are attached hereto and incorporated by reference.
Developer and City acknowledge and agree that Developer is in the process of selling the
Property to HPG Central+ Wilson, LLC, a Washington limited liability corporation (''HPG''),
and that Developer intends on assigning this Agreement in its entirety to HPG upon notice to
City as Close of Escrow as defined in Section 2 herein below. Developer has authorized HPG to
seek entitlements for the Property. City and Developer agree that should the escrow on the
conveyance of the Property to HPG fail to close, then this Agreement shall be automatically
terminated and of no further force and effect, and City shall cooperate in removing this
Agreement from title to the Property.

        (c)     On                , Developer received approval from the City to construct a 6-
story, 85 foot high mixed-use residential conunercial project consisting of 153 multi-family
rental units and approximately 4,900 square feet of ground floor commercial space [or five (5)
live-work units] and related amenities with underground and above grade on-site parking (the
"Project"), commonly referred to as "Central+ Wilson."

       (d)     The Project is located in the "Broadway Center" District, Subarea A of the
Downtown Specific Plan ("DSP"). The DSP encourages certain uses or development types by
providing additional stories, height and density for such uses. In exchange for providing
additional publically accessible open space the DSP allows an increase in density from 3.0 to 5.2
FAR in the Broadway Center District. The Project's approved design incorporates an additional


                                                  2
DA Central+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
1,300 square feet of publically accessible open space over the minimum 2,087 square feet
required for this Project in order to qualify for the DSP Open Space Incentive, in this case an
increase in FAR from 3.0 to 4.4 FAR.

        (e)     DSP Chapter 7, "Incentives and Bonuses" requires applicants using the bonuses
and/or incentives to enter into either a statutory development agreement or a covenant with the
City in order to ensure the City receives the benefit of the chosen incentive. Developer has
chosen to enter into tllis Agreement to comply with the DSP requirements in order to use the
Public Open Space Incentive for the Project.

       (f)     Developer has also sought to enter into this Agreement to preserve Land Use
Entitlements, as defined in Section 2 herein below, for a fourteen (14) year period.

        (g)     Pursuant to Government Code Д65867.5, the City Council of the City of Glendale
("City Council") finds that: (1) this Agreement, the Applicable Rules and any Future Approvals
(as defined herein) ofthe Project implement the goals and policies of the City of Glendale's
General Plan ("General Plan") and Downtown Specific Plan ("DSP") and provide balanced and
diversified land uses and impose appropriate standards and requirements with respect to land
development and usage in order to maintain the overall quality of life and the environment
within the City; (2) this Agreement, and the Proj ect is in the best interests of and not in detriment
to the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the City and the surrounding
region; (3) this Agreement and the Project are each compatible with the uses authorized in the
zoning district and planning area in which the Project Site is located; (4) adopting this
Agreement is consistent with the General Plan and the DSP, and constitutes a present exercise of
the City's police power and in accordance with its authority as a charter city; and (5) tllis
Agreement is being entered into pursuant to and in compliance with the requirements of
Government Code Д65867;

        (h)  Significant public benefits will be provided by Developer and the Project to the
entire community, including but not limited to the following direct and indirect public benefits:

                 (1)     Payment ofthe first half of the Parks and Library Development Impact
Pee within the one year anniversary of the recording date of this Agreement at the then cutTent
rates in effect, instead of payment of half of the fees prior to issuance of building permits as
currently provided by Development Impact Fee Ordinance No. 5575;

                (2)    An expanded economic base for the City by generating additional prope1ty
and sales tax revenue;

               (3)     High quality design that contributes to the downtown's unique sense of
place, and provides visual and iconic identity to the downtown and city;

                  (4)  New residential ownership opportunities on land that is currently
underutilized, thereby el iminating blight;



                                                    3
DA Central+ Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT. DOCX
              (5)   An increase in the population living downtown in a mixed-use
environment, which will help meet the City's high demand for housing;

                 (6)      Temporary and permanent employment opportunities for City residents;
and

              (7)    A public art contribution, made pursuant to the DSP art requirement, for
use and enjoyment by downtown residents, visitors, and the general public.

        (i)     In exchange for these substantial public benefits, including, but not limited to,
payment and pre-payment of the entire Impact Fee Payment at the time of Plan Check
Submission (each as defined in Section 2 herein below), and Developer agreeing to waive any
request for an Impact Fee Payment refund, the City intends to give Developer assurance that
Developer has the vested right to proceed with the development of the Project for the Tenn and
pursuant to the terms and the conditions of this Agreement and in accordance with the
Applicable Rules (as hereinafter defined).

      G)     The following actions were taken by the City with respect to the approval of this
Agreement and the Project:

             (1)    The City certified an EIR for the Downtown Specific Plan and prepared an
Addendum to that EIR for the Project in accordance with the California Environmental Quality
Act ("CEQA,).

               (2)   On June 5, 2013, the City Planning Commission held a duly noticed public
hearing on the Developer's application for a Development Agreement and by Resolution
recommended to the City Counci l approval of this Agreement.

              (3)     On              , the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing on
the Developer's application for a Development Agreement and on                     , the City
COtmcil adopted Ordinance No.               approving this Agreement.

               (4)   On                 , the City Council held a public hearing on Developer's
Stage II Design Review application and approved said application my motion.

      NOW THEREFORE, the Parties, for valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged by the Parties, hereby agree as follows:

        2.     Definitions. In this Agreement capitalized terms shall have the meanings set
forth below, or if not defined in this Section 2, shall have the meaning ascribed thereto when
such terms are first used herein:

      (a)     "Agreement, means this Development Agreement by and between the City and
Developer, including all exhibits attached hereto and all amendments and modifications thereto.

        (b)      "Applicable Rules" are as defined in Section 5(a).

                                                  4
DA Cenlruiи~Wilson 061313 CLEAN Onal DRAFT.DOCX
          (c)    "Close of Escrow" means the date upon w hich HPG or its assignee acquires fee
title to the Property.

       (d)     "Conditions of Approval" means the conditions of approval of the Land Usc
Entitlements imposed by the City in connection with development of the Project.

        (e)     "Developer" means HPG Central & Wilson, LLC, a Washington limited liability
corporation, as developer of record, and its successors and/or assigns owning all or any portion
of the Project Site.

        (f)    "Puks a nd Library Impact Fees" means those cetiain park, recreation and
library impact fees assessed by the City with respect to the Proj ect pursuant to Ordinance No.
5575.

       (g)      "Design Review Approval" means the Project's approved design which
incorporates a total of3,398 square feet of publicly accessible open space as shown on Exhibit
" C" (Approved Final Design) attached hereto.

       (h)    " Development Impact Fees" means impact fees other than Parks and Library
Impact Fees assessed by the City at present or to be assessed by the City in the future.

      (i)    "Effective Date" is the date tllis Agreement is recorded in the Official Records of
Los Angeles County.

         (j)      "Execution Date" is the date this Agreement is fully executed by the parties.

       (k)     "Filing or P rocessing F ees" means those fees uniformly charged by various City
dcpatiments to cover the administrative costs of, among other things, reviewing and analyzing
permit applications and similar requests for ministerial and/or discretionary approvals.

       (I)     "Future Approvals" means any action approved by the City which implements
development of the Project, including, without limitation, parcel maps, tentative subdivision
maps, Project site plan reviews and/or additional design review (if any), signage plan, density
bonus housing plan and granting of incentives, and conditional use permits.

         (m)    "Improvements" means those improvements to be constructed by Developer or
by its tenants with respect to the Project pursuant to the Applicable Rules, the Project Approvals
and the Plans submitted by Developer and approved by the City.

        (n)    " Incentive" means the Public Open Space Incentive as defined by DSP Chapter
7, and as incorporated into the Project's Approved Final Design attached hereto as Exhibit "C"

        (o)    " Land Use E ntitlements" means the Design Review Approval and other
discretionary approvals set forth in Section 1(j)




                                                    5
OJ\ Central+ Wilson 061313 CLeAN final DRAFT.DOCX
        (p)      "Lease Term" means the term of Tenant's lease, including any applicable option
periods.

        (q)   "Mitigation Measures" means the mitigation measures described in t he
Downtown Specific Plan Final EIR Mitigation, Monitoring and Reporting Program for each
potential impact of the Project.

           (r)   "Municipal Code" means the Glendale Municipal Code and all amendments
thereto.

        (s)   "I>Jan Check Submission" for purposes of this Agreement means the initial
submission of Plans for a foundation and building permit for purposes of Plan checking by the
City in compliance with Section 105.3 "Application for Permit" and Section 107 "Submittal
Documents" ofVolume lA of the Glendale Building and Safety Code, 2011.

        (t)     "Plans" shall mean plans, specifications, drawings and other information required
for the construction of the Improvements, which may include as applicable: (a) designs,
locations and dimensions of Improvements, (b) site plans, (c) street level plans, (d) typical
building floor plans, (e) key elevations and key building cross sections, (f) features in public
areas, (g) landscape features, materials and sizes, (h) locations for signs and signage designs, (i)
parking facilities with spaces indicated, (j) general construction techniques, (k) detailed
tabulation of floor area by use, (1) structural dimensions and elevations, (m) building materials
and colors, and (n) written requirements for materials, equipment, systems, standards and
workmanship, and/or working drawings.

           (u)    "Project" has the meaning set forth in Section l (c) above.

           (v)    "Project Site" has the meaning set forth in Section 1(b) above.

         (w)     "Reserved Powers" means the rights and authority excepted from any
restrictions of this Agreement on the City's police powers and which are instead reserved to the
City. The Reserved Powers include the power to enact and implement rules, regulations,
ordinances and policies after the Effective Date that are not in conflict with the Applicable Rules
or that may be in conflict with the Applicable Rules but are permitted by Section 5(b) of this
Agreement.

       (x)    "Tenant" means the existing tenant on the Project Site as of the date of the
Execution Date of this Agreement, and any successors, or assigns of said Tenant.

        (y)     "Term" means the applicable period oftime during which this Agreement shall
be in effect and shall bind the City and Developer, as described in Section 12.

      (z)     Other terms not specifically defined in this Agreement shall have the same
meaning as set forth in the Municipal Code.




                                                   6
DA Ccntral+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
        3.      Binding Effect. This Agreement, and all of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent permitted by law, constitute covenants which shall run with the
land comprising the Project Site for the benefit thereof, and the benefits and burdens of this
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective
assigns, heirs, or other successors in interest. The covenant to provide the Public Open Space
Incentive as reflected in the Approved Final Design shall survive the term of this Agreement, and
shall run with the land comprising the Project Site for so long as the Project exists on the Project
Site.

         4.      Parks and L ibrary Impact Fees. Developer shall have the following options for
early payment of the Parks and Library Impact Fees (i) payment in full (100%) of the Parks and
Library Impact Fees at the Close of Escrow at the rate in effect at the time of payment; or (ii)
payment of half (50%) of the Parks and Library Impact Fee within the one year anniversary of
the recording of this Agreement ("Initial Fee Payment) at the rate in effect at the time of
payment, with payment of the balance of Parks and Library Impact Fees to be made at any time
after the Initial Fee Payment but prior to the issuance of building permits ("Final Fee Payment").
The Final Fee Payment shall be calculated at the rate in effect at the time of payment. The Initial
Fee Payment and Final Fee Payment together constitute the early impact fee payment option (the
"Early Impact Fee Payment"). The Developer will be required to make an additional Parks and
Library Impact Fees payment on any approved increase in the number of units or on any
approved increase in commercial square footage of the Project submitted by Developer after
payment of the Early Impact Fee Payments. Any additional payment for additional units or
square footage shall be calculated at the rate in effect at the time of payment. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Developer acknowledges and agrees that (i) it shall not be eligible for any
reduction, rebate or reimbursement in the amount of Early Impact Fee Payments should
Developer choose to reduce the number of units or square footage in the Project; (ii) in the event
the Plan Check Submission expires, (iii) the Developer otherwise withdraws from the City's
building plan check process ("Plan Check"), or (iv) the building permit expires and the Project is
not completed. At the time of any re-submission ofthe Project to plan check, or any approved
revision to the Project, Developer shall be required to pay the difference between any Parks and
Library Impact Fees previously paid and the Parks and Library Impact Fees payable at the rates
in effect at such time. The parties acknowledge that Developer's payment of the Early Impact
Fee Payments is of substantial benefit to the Developer and the City, and in exchange for, and in
consideration of that substantial benefit, the Developer agrees to forego and to forever waive the
right to request a refund of, reduction to, or modification of the Early Impact Fee Payment. If
Developer's Early Impact Fee Payment does not clear, is cancelled by Developer, or is rendered
ineffective for any reason, Developer shall then pay the Parks and Library Impact Fees rates at
the rates specified in the Development Impact Fcc Ordinance. Nothing in this Section 4 shall
obligate the Developer to make the Early Impact Fee Payments. The Developer shall retain the
option to pay the Parks and Library Impact Fees pursuant to Ordinance 5575 or as it may be
amended by the City.

         5.      Applicable Rules; Reserved Powers. The development standards and
restrictions set forth in this Section shall govern the use and development of the Project and the
Project Site and shall constitute the Applicable Rules as of the Effective Date of this Agreement

                                                    7
J)A Central+ Wilson 061313 CLEAN linal nRAFT.DOCX
as set forth above, except as subject to the Reserved Powers and otherwise provided herein.

        (a)      Applicable Rules. The following shall be part of the Applicable Rules:

                 (1)      The General Plan and any applicable specific plan;

             (2)    The Municipal Code (including the Zoning Code) to the extent it is not
amended or supersede by the Specific Plan;

               (4)    Such other ordinances, rules, regulations, and official policies ofthe City
goveming petmitted uses of the Project, and density, design, improvement, and construction
standards and specifications applicable to the development of the Project;

            (5)   This Agreement and all attaclunents thereto authorized by Ordinance No.
- --    on - - -- - ---" which include the Land Use Entitlements and Conditions of
Approval;

                (6)     This Project shall pay all applicable fees; provided, however, that the
payment of Parks and Library Impact Fees shall be subject to the requirements set forth in
Section 4 herein above; all other fees will be assessed at the time that they are required, and are
not fixed as a part of this Agreement, and may include future impact fees adopted by the City;
and

              (7)    Any applicable mitigation measures and mitigation monitoring programs
imposed in accordance with the Certified Downtown Specific Plan EIR.

       (b)     Reserved Powers. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the
contrary, the City reserves the right through its Reserved Powers, as defmed herein below, to
enact and implement:

                (1)    Ordinances, rules, regulations and policies relating to uniform codes
adopted by City or by the State of California, such as, but not limited to, the Uniform Building
Code, the California Building Standards Code, International Building Code as adopted by the
California Building Standards Commission, National Electrical Code, Uniform Mechanical Code
or Unifmm Fire Code, as amended (including those amendments to the promulgated uniform
codes which reflect local modification to implement the published recommendations of the
multi-state organization and which are applicable City-wide), and the application of such
tmiform codes to the Project at the time of application for issuance of building permits for
structures on the Project Site including such amendments to uniform codes as the City may adopt
from time to time;

                (2)    Rules, regulations, ordinances and/or policies determined by the City to be
necessary in order to prevent or remedy conditions dangerous to the health and safety of City
residents, including any current or future impact fees and any increases or adjustments in the
Parks and Library Impact Fees;



D/\ Ccntrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN tinaiORAFT.DOCX
                                                   8
                (3)    In the event that State or Federal laws or regulations prevent or preclude
compliance with one or more of the provisions of this Agreement, such provisions of this
Agreement shall be modified or suspended as may be necessary to comply with such State or
Federal laws or regulations; provided, however, that this Agreement shall remain in full force
and effect to the extent it is not inconsistent with such laws or regulations and to the extent such
laws or regulations do not render such remaining provisions impractical to enforce.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, City shall not adopt or undertake any regulation, program or
action or take any action required by State or Federal laws or regulations which is/are
inconsistent or in conflict with this Agreement until it has met and discussed the proposed action
with the Developer;

                 (4)    Within thirty (30) days of the eight (8) year anniversary of the Effective
Date of this Agreement, City and Developer agree to meet and confer to discuss the status of the
Design Review Approval. City and Developer agree that Minor Changes (as defined in Section
9.b herein below) to the Design Review Approval may be warranted to update the Project design
after the fifth year post approval and agree to cooperate in good faith to effectuate any Minor
Changes to the Design Review Approval that may be necessary to update the Project design and
that are mutually acceptable. The Community Development Director shall have the discretion to
administratively approve Minor Changes to the Design Review Approval.

       6.       Limitation on Application of Conflicting Requirements. Any change in, or
addition to, the Applicable Rules, including, without limitation, any change in the General Plan,
zoning ordinance or building regulation (excluding changes to tmiform codes) adopted or
becoming effective after the Effective Date, including, without limitation, any such change by
means of ordinance, City Charter amendment, initiative, referendum, resolution, motion, policy
order or moratorium, initiated or instituted for any reason whatsoever and adopted by the Mayor,
City Council, or any City agency, or by the electorate, as the case may be, which would absent
this Agreement, be otherwise applicable to the Project and which would conflict with the
Applicable Rules or this Agreement, shall not be applied to the Project unless such changes
represent an exercise of Reserved Powers or are otherwise expressly allowed by this Agreement.

        7.      Acknowledgments, Agreements and Assurances on the Part of Developer. In
order to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement, and in consideration for the City entering
into this Agreement and obligating itself to cany out the covenants and conditions set forth
herein, the Developer hereby agrees and acknowledges that:

              (a)    Construction of Project. The Project shall be constructed pursuant to
this Agreement, the Applicable Rules and the Downtown Specific Plan EIR and Mitigation
Monitoring and Reporting Program, and any addendum thereto.

                 (b)    Other Governmental Permits. Developer shall apply in a timely manner
for such other permits and approvals as may be required f}:om other governmental or quasi-
governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the Project for the development of, or provision
of services to, the Project. The City shall cooperate with Developer in its endeavors to obtain



                                                  9
DA Centrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
such permits and approvals, but Developer shall have no separate cause of action against City
under this Section if Developer fails to obtain such permits and approvals.

                (c)     Acknowledgments, Agreements and Assurances on the Part of the
City. In order to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement, and in consideration for the
Developer entering this Agreement and obligating itself to cany out the covenants and
conditions set forth in the preceding Section of this Agreement, the City hereby agrees and
acknowledges that Developer is hereby granted the vested right to develop the Project on the
Project Site to the extent and in the manner provided in this Agreement, subject to and in
accordance with the Applicable Rules and Reserved Powers.

        8.      Acknowledgements, Agreements, and Assurances on the Part of the Parties.
In order to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement, and in consideration for the Parties
entering this Agreement and obligating themselves to cany out the covenants and conditions set
forth in the preceding Section of this Agreement, the Parties hereby agree and acknowledge that:

                 (a)      Agreement and Assurances on the Part of Developer.

                         (1)     Developer agrees to use good faith efforts to submit plans for Plan
                 Check and pay Plan Check fees pursuant to the Land Use Entitlements within four
                 (4) years of Tenant's vacation of the Property. Developer's failure to submit
                 plans for Plan Check and pay Plan Check fees pursuant to the Land Use
                 Entitlements within the four (4) year period specified in this Section 8(a)(t) shall
                 result in termination of this Agreement. Provided, however, that nothing in this
                 Agreement shall obligate Developer to develop, construct or operate the Project
                 if, in Developer's reasonable business judgment, it is not feasible to do so.

                         (2)     In connection with the construction of the Project Developer shall
                 comply with all Applicable Rules, including without limitation any Mitigation
                 Measures and Conditions of Approval. Developer agrees that the City has
                 sufficient legal authority to adopt and require Developer's compliance with the
                 Mitigation Measures and Conditions of Approval, and Developer agrees that it
                 will not challenge the City's right to require Developer's compliance with the
                 Mitigation Measures and Conditions of Approval.


                 (b)    Administrative Changes and Amendments. Notwithstanding Section
l l(g) hereof, the Parties acknowledge that further planning and development of the Project may
demonstrate that refinements and changes are appropriate with respect to the details and
performance of the Pmties under this Agreement. The Parties desire to retain a certain degree of
flexibility with respect to the details of the Project development and with respect to those items
covered in general terms under this Agreement. If and when the parties mutually agree that
"Minor Changes", as herein defined, are necessary or appropriate, they may, unless otherwise
required by law, be effectuated through administrative amendments executed by the Developer
and the City Manager or his or her designee, pursuant to the processes established through the


                                                  10
DA Central+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
Applicable Rules and Reserved Powers. As used herein, "Minor Changes" are changes,
modifications or adjustments, which are consistent with the Applicable Rules, and which do not
materially alter the overall nature, scope, or design of the Project, including, without limitation,
minor changes in locations of the building, or streets, infrastructure, the configuration and size of
the parcel or lot (including lot line adjustments), or development of the infrastructure. Minor
Changes to the design shall substantially comply with the Design Review Approval, and unless
the parties otherwise agree, any proposed modifications to design shall only require materials
that are substantially the same or comparable to the materials approved in the Design Review
Approval. Minor Changes shall not be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement under
Section ll{g) of this Agreement or under Government Code Section 65868, and unless otherwise
required by law, no such administrative amendments shall require prior notice or hearing by the
Planning Commission or City Council.

       9.     Cooperation and Implementation. The City and Developer agree that they will
cooperate with one another to the fullest extent reasonable and feasible to implement this
Agreement. Such cooperation shall include, but is not limited to, the following:

                (a)    Further Assurances: Covenant to Sign Documents. Each Party shall
take all actions and do all things, and execute, with acknowledgment or affidavit, if required, any
and all documents and writings, including estoppel certificates, which may be necessary or
proper to achieve the purposes and objectives of this Agreement. The Party requesting the herein
described actions, including the execution of any documents, writings and estoppel certificates
(collectively documents), shall pay for all legal and other consulting fees and/or costs incuned
by the City in reviewing such documents.

                 (b)    Processing. Upon satisfactory completion by Developer of all required
preliminary actions and payments of appropriate filing or processing fees, if any, City shall,
subject to all legal requirements, promptly initiate, diligently process, and complete all required
steps, and promptly act upon any approvals and permits necessary for the development of the
Project by Developer in accordance with this Agreement.

                (c)     Defense of Agreement. City and Developer agree to cooperate, and to
timely take all actions necessary or required to uphold the validity and enforceability of this
Agreement subject to the indemnification provisions of Section 9(d). The City and Developer
shall promptly notify one another of any claim, action, or proceeding brought forth within this
time petiod.

                (d)    Indemnification. Developer shall indemnify defend and hold harmless
(with counsel reasonably acceptable to the City) the City, its officers, agents and employees, (the
"Indemnitees"), from and against any and all third-party claims, demands, costs, judgments,
attorneys' fees and/or liabilities which arise from (1) the performance of this Agreement by
Developer or Developer's ownership, development, use, or operation of the Project Site or any
portion thereof excepting those liabilities which are caused by the Indemnitees' (or any of them)
gross negligence or willful misconduct, and (2) any litigation challenging the validity and/or
sufficiency of the Project's CEQA clearance and/or the Land Use Entitlements for the Project.


                                                    I1
DA Central+ Wilson 061313 CLEAN linal DRi\FT.DOCX
City agrees to work with Developer to discuss and effectuate settlement of any litigation
hereunder where it is in the parties' best interests to do so. Indemnitees and the Developer shall
have the right to require that any case initially be handled tlrrough an alternative dispute
resolution process. The City and Developer agree to fully cooperate with one another in any
case where no conflict of interest between the parties is apparent. Without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, Developer specifically agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless City and
Agency from any liabilities resulting from Developer's failure to comply with all laws applicable
to the Project or the Project Site.

         10.      Compliance; Default; Termination; Modifications and Amendments.

         (a)    Review of Compliance. During the term of this Agreement, the City shall review
this Agreement on or before each anniversary of the Effective Date ("Periodic Review") in order
to determine whether Developer is in good faith compliance with any specific term or provision
of this Agreement. At the commencement of each Periodic Review, the Director shall notify
Developer in writing that the Periodic Review will commence or has commenced. City shall
notify Developer regarding any alleged non-compliance on the part of the Developer. Within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the Director's notice that the Periodic Review will commence or
has commenced (and unless Developer requests and is granted a waiver by the City), City may
request Developer to demonstrate good faith compliance with this Agreement.

       (b)      Non-Compliance/Default by Developer. In addition to the Periodic Review
process set forth in this Section, in the event the City Council has determined after noticed public
hearing that Developer has not performed its obligations under this Agreement in a timely
manner, the City shall have those rights and remedies provided for in this Agreement.

          (c)    Notice of Non-Compliance/Default. With respect to any non-
compliance/default under this Agreement determined pursuant to Subsection (b) of this Section
 ll , the City shall submit to Developer, by registered or certified mail return receipt requested, a
written notice of default in the manner prescribed in Section 17 herein, identify ing with
specificity those obligations of Developer, which have not been performed. Upon receipt of the
notice of non-compliance/default, Developer shall promptly commence to cure the identified
defaults(s) at the earliest reasonable time after receipt ofthe notice of default and shall complete
the cure of such default(s) not later than thitty (30) days after receipt of the notice of default, or
such longer period as is reasonably necessary to remedy such default(s), provided that Developer
shall continuously and diligently pursue such remedy at all times until such default(s) is cured.
Pursuant to this Section, mortgagees may be entitled to notice of any default by Developer
hereunder and an additional period on which to cure such default.

          (d)    Developer Failure to Cure Non-Compliance/Default Procedure. If, after the
cure period has elapsed, the City finds and determines that (1) Developer has not demonstrated
that it is in compliance with this Agreement, and (2) Developer is out of compliance with a
specific, substantive term or any provision of this Agreement, then the City shall first notify the
Developer in writing and then shall make a report to the City Council and set a public hearing
before the City Council in accordance with the notice and hearing requirements of Government


                                                   12
DA Central+ Wilson 061313 CLEA N final DRAFLDOCX
Code Sections 65867 and 65868. If, after public hearing, the City Council finds and determines,
on the basis of substantial evidence, that Developer has not cured the default pursuant to this
Section, then the City may terminate this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, non-
performance by either Party shall be excused when it is delayed unavoidably and beyond the
reasonable control of the Parties as a result of any of the events identified in Section 20 of this
Agreement.

        (e)     Termination of Agreement. Subject to compliance with Govemment Code
Section 65868, this Agreement may be amended or canceled in whole or in part by mutual
consent of the parties, or te1minated by the, or City after final determination of the City Council
on the basis of substantial evidence that Developer has not cured its default.

        (f)     Non-Compliance/Default by City. With respect to any non-compliance/default
under this Agreement, the Developer shall submit to City, by registered or certified mail return
receipt requested, a written notice of default in the manner prescribed in Section 17 herein,
identifying with specificity those obligations of City which have not been perfmmed. Upon
receipt of the notice of non-compliance/default, City shall promptly commence to cure the
identified defaults(s) at the earliest reasonable time after receipt of the notice of default and shall
complete the cure of such default(s) not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice of
default, or such longer period as is reasonably necessary to remedy such default(s), provided that
City shall continuously and diligently pursue such remedy at all times until such defau1t(s) is
cured.

        (g)     Modification or Amendment. Notwithstanding Section 9 herein above
pertaining to Administrative Amendments, and subject to the notice and hearing requirements of
the Development Agreement Statute, this Agreement may be modified or amended from time to
time only with the written consent of Developer and the City or their successors and assigns in
accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Code and Government Code Section 65868. As
a condition precedent to City's execution of any amendment of this Agreement, Developer shall
deliver to City a preliminary title report together with a notice stating that the mortgagees listed
in such report wi ll be entitled to notice of and consent to such amendment pursuant to Section 17
of this Agreement.

        11.     Administration. This Agreement shall be administered and executed by the City
Manager or his/her designated representative, following approval of this Agreement by the City.
The City shall maintain authority of this Agreement through the City Manager (or his/her
authorized representative). The City Manager shall have the authority to issue interpretations,
waive provisions, extend time limits, make minor modifications to City design approvals, and/or
revise this Agreement on behalf of the City so long as such actions do not conflict with the
substantive provisions of this Agreement, substantially change the Project or the uses, square
footages or development permitted on the Project Site by this Agreement or add to the City costs,
or conflict with the Applicable Rules. All waivers of this Agreement shall comply with Section
21 of this Agreement. All amendments of this Agreement, other than those minor changes
described in Section 9, this Section 11, shall comply with Section 10(g) of this Agreement.



                                                    13
0/\ Centrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN tlnal DR.AfT.DOCX
        12.    Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall become operative on the Effective
Date and the Term shall end at 5:00p.m. on the day that is fourteen (14) years after the Effective
Date of this Agreement, unless this Agreement is terminated, modified or extended in
compliance with Government Code 65868 and upon mutual written consent of the Parties hereto.
Following expiration or termination of the Term hereof, this Agreement shall be deemed
tetminated and of no further force and effect. The Tenn shall be extended by the number of days
equal to the number of days that any Enforced Delay as defined in Section 21 was in effect.

        13.     Administration of Agreement and Resolution of Disputes. All disputes
involving the enforcement, interpretation or administration of this Agreement shall first be
subject to good faith negotiations between the Parties to resolve the dispute. In the event the
dispute is not resolved by negotiations, the Parties shall be permitted to pursue any remedy
provided for under this Agreement or otherwise available under applicable law or judicial
decision, whether at law or in equity. No remedy or election hereunder shall be deemed
exclusive but shall, wherever possible, be cumulative with all other remedies available to any
Party.

        14.    Injunctive Relief. Any Party to the dispute may, in addition to any other rights
or remedies provided by this Agreement, seek to enjoin any threatened or attempted violation
hereof, or enforce by specific performance the obligations and rights of the Patties hereto, except
as otherwise provided herein.

        15.    No Damages Relief Against City. The Patиties acknowledge that the City would
not have entered into this Agreement had it been exposed to any damage claims from Developer
for any breach thereof. As such, the patties agree that in no event shall Developer be entitled to
recover damages against the City for breach of this Agreement.

        16.     No Personal Liability. No board member, councilmember, official or employee
of the City or Agency shall be personally liable to Developer in the event of any default or
breach by the City for any amount which may become due to Developer or on any obligations
under the terms of this Agreement.

        17.     Notices. All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed delivered when personally received by the addressee, or within three (3) calendar days
after deposit in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, to the following Parties and their counsel at the addresses indicated below;
provided, however, if any Party to this Agreement delivers a notice or causes a notice to be
delivered to any other Party to this Agreement, a duplicate of that Notice shall be concurrently
delivered to each other Party and their respective counsel. Such notices or communications shall
be given to the Parties at their addresses set forth below:

        To City:                    City of Glendale
                                    Department of Development Services
                                    633 E. Broadway, Suite 201
                                    Glendale, California 91206-4387


                                                    14
DA Ccnlrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN linal DRi\FT.DOCX
                                    Attention: City Manager
                                    FAX: (81 8) 240-7913

         With copies to:            City of Glendale, City Attorney's Office
                                    613 East Broadway, Suite 220
                                    Glendale, California 91206
                                    Attention: Gillian van Muyden,
                                    General Counsel-Redevelopment
                                    FAX: (818) 547-3402

         To Developer:              Holland Partner Group
                                    111 1 Main Street, Suite 750
                                    Vancouver, WA 98669
                                    Attention: Tom Warren
                                    FAX: (360) 696-9776

         With copy to:              Allan J. Abshez, Esq.
                                    Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP
                                    2029 Century Park East, Suite 2700
                                    Los Angeles, CA 90067-3012
                                    FAX: (3 10) 712-8238

Notice given in any other manner shall be effective when received by the addressee. The
addresses for notices may be changed by notice given in accordance with this provision.

        18.      Sever ability a nd T ermin ation. If any provision of this Agreement is detennined
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, or if any provision of this
Agreement is superseded or rendered unenforceable according to any law which becomes
effective after the Effective Date, the remainder of this Agreement shall be effective to the extent
the remaining provisions are not rendered impractical to perform and the remaining portions of
the Agreement, taken as a whole, continue to effect the intent of the Parties, taking into
consideration the purposes of this Agreement.

       19.     T ime of Essen ce. Time is of the essence for each provision of this Agreement of
which time is an element.

        20.     E nforced Delay; Extension of T ime of Performa nce. Required performance by
either party hereunder shall not be deemed to be in Default, and all performance and other dates
specified in this Agreement shall be extended, where delays or Defaults are due to: litigation
challenging the validity of this transaction or any element thereof or the right of either party to
engage in the acts and transactions contemplated by this Agreement; inability to secure necessary
labor materials or tools; actions in connection with the remediation of Hazardous Materials,
including groundwater contamination; or withdrawal of financing not caused by any act or
omission ofDeveloper; war; insurrection; strikes; lockouts; riots; floods; earthquakes; fires;
casualties; acts of God; acts of the public enemy; acts of terrorism; epidemics; quarantine

                                                     I5
DA Ccntral+Wilson 061313 CLF.AN finaiiJRAFT.DOCX
restrictions; freight embargoes; lack of transportation; governmental restrictions or priority;
building, sewer, water, or other moratoria; unusually severe weather; acts or omissions of the
other party; acts or failures to act of the City or any other public or governmental agency or
entity; or any other causes beyond the control or without the fault of the party claiming an
extension of time to perform. An extension of time for any such cause shall be for the period
reasonably attributable to the enforced delay and shall commence to run from the time ofthe
commencement of the cause, if notice by the patty claiming such extension is sent to the other
party within thirty (30) days of the commencement of the cause. Times of performance under
this Agreement may also be extended in writing by the mutual agreement of the City and/or
Developer. Notwithstanding any provision ofthis Agreement to the contrary, neither the lack of
funding to complete the Improvements nor the inability to timely submit for Plan Check and
make the Impact Fee Payment required by Section 4 herein above shall constitute grounds for
enforced delay pursuant to this Section 21.

        21.     Waiver. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless
in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative of the Party against whom enforcement
of a waiver is sought.

        22.    No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is made and entered into for the
sole protection and benefit of the Developer and the City and their successors and assigns. No
other person shall have any right of action based upon any provision of this Agreement.

       23.      Attorneys' Fees. If any Party commences any action for the interpretation,
enforcement, termination, cancellation or rescission of this Agreement or for specific
performance for the breach hereof, the prevailing Patty shall be entitled to its reasonable
attorneys' fees, litigation expenses and costs arising from the action. Attomeys' fees under this
Section shall include attomeys' fees on any appeal as well as any attomeys' fees incurred in any
post-judgment proceedings to collect or enforce the judgment.

        24.     Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the laws of the State of California, and the venue for any legal actions brought by any Party
with respect to this Agreement shall be the County of Los Angeles, State of California for state
actions and the Central District of Califomia for any federal actions.

        25.      Authority to Execute; Binding Effect. Developer represents and warrants to the
City that it has the power and authority to execute this Agreement and, once executed, this
Agreement shall be final, valid, binding and enforceable against Developer in accordance with
its terms. The City represents and warrants to Developer that (a) all public notices and public
hearings have been held in accordance with law and all required actions for the adoption of this
Agreement have been completed in accordance with applicable law; (b) this Agreement, once
executed by the City, shall be final, valid, binding and enforceable against the City in accordance
with its terms; and (c) this Agreement may not be amended, modified, changed or terminated in
the future by the City except in accotdance with the terms and conditions set forth herein.




                                                  16
DA Ccntrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
        26.     Entire Agreement; Conflicts. This Agreement represents the entire agreement
of the Parties. This Agreement integrates all of the terms and conditions mentioned herein or
incidental hereto, and supersedes all negotiations or previous agreements between the Parties or
their predecessors in interest with respect to all or any part of the subject matter hereof. Should
any or all of the provisions of this Agreement be found to be in conflict with any other provision
or provisions found in the Applicable Rules, then the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

       27.     City Approvals and Actions. Whenever a reference is made herein to an action
or approval to be undertaken by the City, the City Manager, or his designee is authorized to act
on behalf of City unless specifically provided otherwise or the context or any law should require
otherwise.

       28.   Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in multiple counterparts which,
when signed by all Parties, shall constitute a binding agreement.

        29.     Integration. This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the
Parties relating to the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. All prior or
contemporaneous agreements, understandings, representations and statements, oral or written,
are merged in this Agreement and shall be of no further force or effect. Each Party is entering
this Agreement based solely upon the representations set forth herein and upon each Party's own
independent investigation of any and all facts such Party deems material. This Agreement
includes Exhibits A through C, (each such Exhibit incorporated in this Agreement as if fully set
forth herein) which together constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Parties,
notwithstanding any previous negotiations or agreements between the Parties or their
predecessots in interest with respect to all or any part of the subject matter hereof.

         30.   Interpretation. As used in this Agreement, masculine, feminine or neuter gender
and the singular or plural number shall each be deemed to include the others where and when the
context so dictates. The word "including" shall be construed as if followed by the words
"without limitation." This Agreement shall be interpreted as though prepared jointly by both
Parties.

        31.     Legal Advice. Each Party represents and warrants to the other the following:
they have carefully read this Agreement, and in signing this Agreement, they do so with full
knowledge of any right which they may have; they have received independent legal advice from
their respective legal counsel as to the matters set f01th in this Agreement, or have knowingly
chosen not to consult legal counsel as to the matters set forth in this Agreement; and, they have
freely signed this Agreement without any reliance upon any agreement, promise, statement or
representation by or on behalf of the other Party, or their respective agents, employees or
attorneys, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, and without duress or coercion,
whether economic or otherwise.

       32.     Conflicts of Interest. No member, onicial or employee of the City shall have
any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement, nor shall any such member, official or
employee patticipate in any decision relating to the Agreement which affects his personal


                                                  17
DA Ccntrai+Wilson 061313 CLEAN fu1al DRAFT.OOCX
interests or the interests of any corporation, partnership or association in which he is directly or
indirectly interested.

        33.     Assi!mment. The burdens of the Agreement shall be binding upon, and the
benefits of this Agreement shall inure to, all successors in interest and assigns of the parties to
the Agreement. The parties shall provide thirty (30) days advance written notice of any
assignment. Said notice shall be in compliance with Section 16 herein.

        34.     Negation of Agency. The Parties acknowledge that, in entering into and
performing under this Agreement, each is acting as an independent entity and not as an agent of
the other in any respect. Nothing contained herein or in any document executed in connection
herewith shall be construed as making the City and Developer joint venturers, partners, agents of
the other, or employer/employee.



                        [SIGNATURES BEGIN ON FOLLOWING PAGE]




                                                  18
DA Central+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFT.DOCX
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the
date first written above.

CITY OF GLENDALE, CALIFORNIA                     APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                                 MICHAEL J. GARCIA, CITY ATTORNEY
By:
        Scott Ochoa, City Manager                By:
                                                       Gillian van Muyden
                                                       Chief Assistant City Attorney

                                                 ATTEST:

                                                 By:
                                                       Ardashes Kassakhian, City Clerk

HPG Central + Wilson, LLC, a Washington
limited liability corporation

By:     Holland Partner Group Management,
        Inc.,. a Delaware corporation, its
        Manager


By:
        Tom Warren
        Vice President, Development Division
        Southern California




                                                19
OA Ccntral+Wilson 061313 CLEAN linaiORAH.DOCX
                                             ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA                                    )
                                                       ) ss:
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES                                  )

          On                           20__, before me, the undersi~:,rned, a Notary Public in and for said State,
personally appeated                          as                 of THE CITY OF GLENDALE, a municipal
corporation, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instmment and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their
authorities capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon
behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.



         WITNESS my hand and official seal.




                                                       Signature


[Notary Seal]


         On                          , 20_ , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said State,
personally appeared                                                    , who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorities capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the
instmment the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. I certify
under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is tme and
correct.


WiTNESS my hand and official seal.



                                                       Signature

[Notary Seal]




                                                           20
DA CciJtral+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final DRAFLDOCX
                                                    EXHIBIT A

                                                PROJECT SITE




                                                        21
DA Centrai+Wilson 06 1313 CLEAN linal DRAFI'.DOCX
LEGEND
01TheH:h>'.<tts                                 >6 Glenc3JaCallllaTheatJ;
02 Gllnja~t:l'f rin:a~l:owmen:ial               1 iHCl~ 9rt1dWCtd
(3 C cr.mrcQI Offices                           1SPatring GФage
C-1 Restlur<rls &?a(<r.g                        1gPБ!2il
C6 Heat~ Carl Pal1ner.                          20SI'Il/Pinncиrw
00 Border Beo~                                  1~ Aиeronso1Wr.lll
OiLawC~css                                      22 Resi;l;:llr,t A~ar.:neet91d~
OBtи:Omstrtm                                    2> Marilm'l 01~ llal:l
OlMa:(S                                         24FrstBaptistCimb
10 GleM~a fim1:i11 Sqcara                       <SOI'<'.s
11~1~ t1~::es                                   ~l sw.211 Rmn&Aesldenti~
11 St.! ct Fu:ur< 3md + \\1scnro:-.~lcfment     mrz.tr.Ptace
13 Si~ tl Fu:ur; O~r~и +W  iOQ1 Dlll't o}Terl   Ea Giencala'I!.IC'
14 Sea~                                         <.9 UriiБ&SIII!s P~stQIF.ce
1 5 '/l<mcuseOisccurtCe~er                      ~lA~~e1canaatSrand




MASSINGOF CONTEXT




                                                                                                     Lccaticn Map
canierjohnson + CUlTUR:I II)                          Holland Partners            Central + Wilson   Stage USubmi:tal   Aprll29. 2013   03
                                                 EXHIBITB

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
THE LAND REFERRED TO IN THIS COMMITMENT IS SITUATED IN THE CITY OF GLENDALE:, COUNIY OF
LOS ANGELБ$, SiATE OF CALIFORNIA, AND IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS;

LOTS 19, 20, 21 AND 22 IN BLOCK 3 OF GLENDALE BOULEVARD TRACT, IN THE CITY OF GLENDALE,
COUNTY OF LOS ANGElES, $TATt OF CALIFORNIA, AS PER MAP RECORDED IN BOOK 5, PAGE 167
OF MAPS, IN THE OFF'ICt OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY.

EXCEPT THE WESTERLY 10 FEET THEREOF, CONVEYED TO CITY OF GLENDALE, FOR STREET
PURPOSES.

APN: 5642- 002- 054




                                                    22
D/\ Ccntral+Wilson 061313 CLEAN linal DRMTDOCX
                                                  EXHIBITC

                                                  PROJECT

             !Stage II Design approved by the City Council of the City of Glendale
       on                      , and available for review in the Office of the City Clerkl




                                                     23
DA Centrui+Wilson 061313 CLEAN final ORAFT.DOCX
                                                                                       EXHIBIT 4




  A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE
      RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IN
           CONNECTION WITH THE CENTRAL +WILSON PROJECT
         LOCATED AT 130 NORTH CENTRAL AVENUE, GLENDALE, CA


THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE DOES HEREBY
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

           SECTION 1. The Planning Commission does hereby find and determine as
follows:

    a. The Planning Commission conducted a noticed public hearing, pursuant to the
       provisions of Section 30.61 of the Glendale Municipal Code, California
       Government Code Sections 65090 and 65091 and Chapter 3, Title 7 of the
       Government Code of the State of California, on June 5, 2013.
    b. The Planning Commission closed the public hearing on June 5, 2013.
    c. The Planning Commission has reviewed and considered all materials,
       communications, public testimony, maps and exhibits of current record on said
       Development Agreement.

        SECTION 2. Based upon the testimony and other evidence received, and upon
studies and investigations made by the Planning Commission and on its behalf, the
Planning Commission further finds and determines that the proposed Development
Agreement is consistent with the goals and policies of the adopted General Plan, and
that the proposed action complies with all other applicable requirements of state law and
local ordinances. Specifically, said action is consistent with the following policies of the
Glendale General Plan and Downtown Specific Plan:

   a. Enhance and expand existing recreational facilities in response to community
       needs. (Recreation Element Objective 1, Policy 3)
   b. Develop an in-lieu fee structure for the acquisition and management of
       recreational land in connection with the development review process. (Recreation
       Element Objective 2, Policy 3)
   c. Provide funding for park expansion efforts on underserved areas of the city
       (Recreation Element Objective 2, Policy 9)
   d. Preserve the high standards of library facilities in their educational and
      .recreational role. (Community Facilities Element, Libraries policy)
   e. Concentrate growth in the downtown to relieve development pressures on
      existing residential neighborhoods. (Downtown Specific Plan, Purpose 1.1.1 0)
   f. Support the creation of higher density residential development in those areas
      best suited from the standpoint of accessibility, current development, community
      organization, transportation and circulation facilities and economic feasibility.
      (Land Use Element, Residential policy)
   g. Promote the revitalization or, if necessary, the replacement of deteriorating
      neighborhoods. (Land Use Element, Residential policy)
   h. Broaden the tax base with emphasis on increasing Glendale's assessed value
      and retail sales In order to provide necessary facilities and services. (Land Use
      Element, Economic policy)
       SECTION 3. Based upon the testimony and other evidence received , and upon
studies and investigation made by the Planning Commission and on its behalf, the
Planning Commission further finds and determines that the proposed Development
Agreement is consistent with the City's General Plan and is in the best interests of the
City and the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, and in accord with the public
purposes and provisions of applicable State and local law requirements and
recommends approval of the development agreement with the following findings:

   a. The development agreement is within the scope of addendum to the 2006
      Dowtown Specific Plan Environmental Impact Report.
   b. The development agreement is consistent with the City's General Plan.
   c. The development agreement will not be detrimental to the public health, safety
      and general welfare because it encourages the construction of a project which is
      desirable and beneficial to the public.
   d. The development agreement complies with all applicable City and State
      regulations governing such agreements.
   e. The development agreement is necessary to strengthen the public planning
      process and to reduce the public and private costs of development uncertainty.


        SECTION 4. Based upon the foregoing , the Planning Commission resolves the
following:

   a. Recommend to the City Council the approval of the Development Agreement.

       Adopted this 51h day of June, 2011.



                                                                         и-
ATTEST:

       I, Hassan Haghani, Commission Secretary, certify that the foregoing resolution
was adopted by the Planning Commission of the City of Glendale, by a majority of the
members thereof at a meeting held on the 5th day of June, 2013 ,and that the same was
adopted by the following vote:

       Ayes: Astorian , Landregan, Lee, Scheetz, and Yesayan
       Noes:
       Absent:
      Abstain:




                             ~H~- Ц~ tЦt;13
                                            c lmmission Secretary
                                                 FINAL PROGRAM EIR

                Prepared For:
                City of Glendale
                633 East Broadway
                Room 201
                Glendale, CA 91206




                                                      Addendum to the
   Glendale Downtown Specific Plan
(regarding the Central + Wilson Project located at 130 N. Central Avenue)




             860 Hampshire Road, Suite P
             Westlake Village, CA 91361
             (805) 367-5720 FAX (805) 367-5733               June 2013
                 Addendum to the
Final Program Environmental Impact Report for the
         Glendale Downtown Specific Plan
      (regarding the Central + Wilson Project,
         located at 130 N. Central Avenue)

             SCH No. 2005121021




                         Prepared for:

                        City of Glendale
                 633 East Broadway, Room 201
                Glendale, California 91206-4387




                         Prepared by:

                    Meridian Consultants
                860 Hampshire Road, Suite P
               Westlake Village, California 91361




                         June 2013
                                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section                                                                                                                                              Page
1.0        Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 1.0-1
           1.1     Project Background ....................................................................................................... 1.0-1
           1.2     Purpose of this Addendum ........................................................................................... 1.0-1
2.0        Project Description .................................................................................................................... 2.0-1
3.0        Environmental Analysis.............................................................................................................. 3.0-1
           3.1     Aesthetics...................................................................................................................... 3.0-1
           3.2     Agriculture and Forest Resources ................................................................................. 3.0-3
           3.3     Air Quality ..................................................................................................................... 3.0-4
           3.4     Biological Resources ..................................................................................................... 3.0-9
           3.5     Cultural Resources ...................................................................................................... 3.0-11
           3.6     Geology and Soils ........................................................................................................ 3.0-13
           3.7     Greenhouse Gas Emissions ......................................................................................... 3.0-16
           3.8     Hazards and Hazardous Materials .............................................................................. 3.0-19
           3.9     Hydrology and Water Quality ..................................................................................... 3.0-23
           3.10 Land Use and Planning ................................................................................................ 3.0-27
           3.11 Mineral Resources ...................................................................................................... 3.0-29
           3.12 Noise ........................................................................................................................... 3.0-29
           3.13 Population and Housing .............................................................................................. 3.0-32
           3.14 Public Services............................................................................................................. 3.0-34
           3.15 Recreation ................................................................................................................... 3.0-37
           3.16 Transportation and Traffic .......................................................................................... 3.0-38
           3.17 Utilities and Service Systems ...................................................................................... 3.0-44

Appendices

Appendix A             Air Quality Calculations
Appendix B             Traffic Impact Analysis




Meridian Consultants                                                         i                                            Addendum to the Final Program EIR
005-003-13                                                                                                                  Glendale Downtown Specific Plan
                                                                                                                                                  June 2013
                                                              LIST OF FIGURES
Figure                                                                                                                                                 Page
2.0-1      Regional Location ....................................................................................................................... 2.0-3
2.0-2      Project Vicinity ........................................................................................................................... 2.0-4
2.0-3      Ground Level Plan ...................................................................................................................... 2.0-5
2.0-4      Floor Plan ................................................................................................................................... 2.0-6
2.0-5      Roof Level Plan ........................................................................................................................... 2.0-7
2.0-6      Central and Wilson Perspective ............................................................................................... 2.0-10
2.0-7      Open Space Connection Perspective ....................................................................................... 2.0-11
2.0-8      Central Avenue Perspective ..................................................................................................... 2.0-12
2.0-9      Plant Palette............................................................................................................................. 2.0-13




Meridian Consultants                                                          ii                                            Addendum to the Final Program EIR
005-003-13                                                                                                                    Glendale Downtown Specific Plan
                                                                                                                                                    June 2013
                                                                            Counts Unlimited, Inc.
                                                                                PO Box 1178
                                                                             Corona, CA 92878
                                                                               (951) 268-6268

City of Glendale                                                                                                                                    File Name     : GLDORWIPM
N/S: Orange Street                                                                                                                                  Site Code     : 00000045
EIVV: Wilson Avenue                                                                                                                                 Start Date    : 5/9/2013
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                                                      Page No       :1

                                                                       Groups Printed- Total Volume
                               Orange Street                     Wilson Avenue                    Orange Street                            Wilson Avenue
I                  I            Southbound                        Westbound                        Northbound                                Eastbound
I    Start Timeи       Left   I Thru I Riaht I Ace. Total   Leftl Thru I RiQht I App. Total Left I Thru I Riaht I Aoo. Total       Left   I Thru I Rio ht I App   Total       Int. Total   I
      04:00PM           10        30      18         58       3     62      31         96    12      44     21          77           7        47        5          59             290
      04:15PM           12        30       8         50       6     72      23        101     3      32       9         44           9        64        5          78             273
      04:30PM           16        26      18         60       8     64      25         97     9      34      14         57           9        65        2          76             290
      04:45PM           13        32      13         58       4     66      19         89    12      46      10         68          15        72        4          91             306
           Total        51       118      57        226      21    264      98        383    36     156      54        246          40       248      16          304            1159

      05:00PM           19        37       18         74      6      78      18                19      55      27       101         13        65         4         82             359
                                                                                      1021
      05:15PM           20        46        6         72      7      72      20        99       9      54      14        77         13        74         6         93             341
      05:30PM           16        37       18        71       6      72      15        93      15      44      16        75          5        61         5         71             310
      05:45PM            5        45       16        66      10      74      21       1o5l      6      44      11        61         18        67         6         91             323
          Total         60       165       58       283      29     296      74       3991     49     197      68       314         49       267        21        337            1333

    Grand Total    I    111     283       115
                                                    5091
                                                             50     560     172
                                                                                      7821
                                                                                               85    353      122
                                                                                                                        560    I     89      515        37
                                                                                                                                                                  641     I      2492
     Apprch%           21.8     55.6     22.6               6.4    71.6      22              15.2     63     21.8                  13.9     80.3       5.8
       Total%           4.5     11.4      4.6       20.4      2    22.5     6.9      31.4     3.4    14.2     4.9      22.5         3.6     20.7       1.5        25.7




       05:00PM          19        37       18         74      6      78      18       102      19      55      27       101         13        65         4         82              359
       05:15PM           20        46       6        72       7      72      20        99       9      54      14        77         13         74        6         93             341
       05:30PM           16       37       18        71       6      72      15        93      15      44      16        75          5        61         5         71             310
       05:45PM            5       45       16        66      10      74      21       105       6      44      11        61         18        67         6         91             323
    Total Volume         60      165       58       283       29    296      74       399      49     197      68       314          49      267        21        337            1333
    %App. Total        21.2     58.3     20.5                7.3   74.2    18.5              15.6    62.7    21.7                  14.5     79.2       6.2
             PHF       .750     .897     .806       .956    .725   .949    .881      .950    .645    .895    .630      .777        .681     .902      .875        .906            .928
