                                                                                    ITEM 10


        CITY OF                      CITRUS HEIGHTS


                                           Memorandum




May 23, 2013


TO:                    Mayor and City Council Members
                       Henry Tingle, City Manager

FROM:                  Alison Bermudez, Associate Planner
                       Colleen McDuffee, Planning Manager
                       Rhonda Sherman, Community & Economic Department Director

SUBJECT:               Relocation of Two Cardrooms ­ 6508/6510 Antelope Road


Summary & Recommendation
On April 10, 2013, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the relocation of two
cardrooms located at 6508/6510 Antelope Road. The Commission recommended the City
Council approve the project and recommended the following motions:

Motions:

      A. Adopt Resolution 2013-____, adopting the Negative Declaration as the appropriate level
         of environmental review for the project;

      B. Introduce, read by title only, and waive the first reading of Ordinance Text Amendment
         2013-____ to amend Zoning Code Sections 106.26 and 106.42.020.C; and

      C. Approve Use Permit UP-12-06 to allow the relocation of two existing cardrooms and
         approve Design Review Permit Modification DRPMOD-12-09 for the proposed building
         renovations at 6510 and 6508 Antelope Road subject to the findings and conditions of
         approval.

Fiscal Impact
The City of Citrus Heights collects a quarterly "table fee" of $225.00 (plus $15.00 Admin Fee)
from all cardrooms within the City. This fee is collected on a "per table" basis. The two existing
cardrooms, Lucky Derby and the Phoenix, currently pay the fee for the number of tables in
operation. Currently, both cardrooms are licensed for 15 tables each but the Lucky Derby and
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     2 of 11

The Phoenix are only operating 13 tables and 10 tables, respectively. With this relocation
project, the cardrooms will operate their allowed 15 tables each; therefore there will be a modest
increase in the fees collected. It is expected that the project total table fees collected will be
$6,765.00 ($225.00 x 30 plus $15.00 admin fee) per quarter.

The Cardroom project is expected to employee 250-300 employees, an approximate 50 percent
increase in the current number of combined employees between the two cardrooms. The
majority of the new employees will be from the expanded food and bar services. Currently all
employees of the cardroom, including dealers, proposition players, cooks, wait staff, bussers, etc.
will be required to obtain an employee permit. Employee permits are $149.00 for the first year
and $100.00 for each year thereafter. The project will also generate sales tax related to food and
alcohol sales.

In addition to the direct fiscal impact to the City (fees, licenses and sales tax), the project is an
adaptive reuse of a building that has been vacant for approximately two years. Two major retail
anchors in the near vicinity (former Albertson's and Rite Aid) have also been vacant for several
years. It is anticipated that the project will serve as a catalyst for redevelopment and reuse of the
larger area known as Antelope Crossing, especially commercial activity on the south side of
Antelope Road. The project, with both its entertainment and dining component, will serve as a
destination location and community asset.

Project Background

The Phoenix Cardroom, 5948 Auburn Boulevard, licensed for 15 cardtables, and the Lucky
Derby, 7433 Greenback Lane, which is licensed for 15 cardtables, have both been in operation in
the City for over twenty years. Both cardrooms offer a small dining area with bar services and
operate 24-hours-a-day.

Kings Casino, LLC has purchased both cardrooms and will be filing applications with the State
of California to relocate both cardrooms to a new location. The proposed relocation will allow
the two cardrooms to operate separately within the same building. The proposed location is an
existing vacant building that will be split into two spaces, 6510 Antelope Road and 6508
Antelope Road. The project is located within the Antelope Crossing Special Planning Area,
recently renamed from the Antelope Road/I-80 Special Planning Area. The plan area allows for
land uses that are consistent with the Shopping Center (SC) zoning district.

Cardrooms are regulated by State law as well as local ordinances. The applicant is in the process
of becoming licensed from the State of California to operate the two cardrooms. Due to the
lengthy and complex licensing process with the State, the applicant is initiating City entitlements
prior to the State's approval of the cardroom operator licenses. If the applicant does not receive
approval from the State of California Gaming Commission, this project will not move forward.
The applicant will also need to obtain approval from the State of California for the relocation of
the cardrooms, which he will move forward with after the City's entitlements are obtained. The
current proposal to relocate the cardrooms to a new location would not increase the number of
tables currently permitted at each cardroom. The project would not increase the number of
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     3 of 11

cardrooms in existence within the City since the current facilities would close if the relocation is
approved. Finally, due to a Statewide moratorium on gambling, the State is not issuing new
cardroom licenses in the City, so the City will only have two cardrooms.
Project Description

The applicant is proposing to reuse an existing vacant building located on the southwest side of
Antelope Road, adjacent the I-80 freeway. The applicant proposes to relocate the City's two
existing cardrooms to this new location where both cardrooms would operate independently but
within one building. The cardrooms would offer card games legal in California such as
Blackjack and a variety of poker games. There will be no slot machines within the facility.
Detailed information regarding the project including the cardroom operation, restaurant, on-site
alcohol sales, and the building enhancements can be found in the Planning Commission Staff
Report that is included as Attachment A1.

The Zoning Code states that if an applicant submits more than one permit application for the
same project, the applications shall be processed concurrently, with all the permits being
considered and acted upon by the highest review authority required by the permits. Therefore
since this project includes an Ordinance Text Amendment that requires City Council action, all
of the entitlements for this project require action by the City Council. The Planning Commission
reviewed the project on April 10, 2013, and recommends the City Council approve project. A
recap of the meeting is provided below:
Planning Commission Meeting April 10, 2013

During the public comment portion of the hearing, the applicant, neighboring property owners,
and other members of the public addressed the Commission. The following is a summary of the
comments:

Concerns
   · Off-site parking within Antelope Plaza;
   · Placement of security personnel on-site;
   · Impact and long term maintenance to the Antelope Plaza main entrance; and
   · Impact the project may have on the adjoining businesses and property.

Support
   · Existing cardrooms have not been a burden to Police Department;
   · Cardroom is not a typical "Las Vegas" type casino;
   · The project's security personnel will be a benefit to the entire center;
   · Project will bring people and activity into the depressed center;
   · Project will help revitalize the area and bring new business types into this part of the
      City; and
   · Project will employ up to 300 people, providing jobs for the community.

In addition to oral testimony, written communication was received from representative of the
Antelope Plaza Shopping center that expressed concern with the applicant's rights to enter into
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     4 of 11

the off-site parking agreement that was included as part of the project's parking demand
calculation (Attachment 6). Based upon this information, staff provided a revised condition that
did not relieve the applicant from meeting the parking requirements for the project but provided
the flexibility to either find alternate off-site parking or reduce the intensity of the project
(Condition 5 of the Design Review Permit). It should be noted that the site plan indicates the
off-site parking within the adjacent parcel of Sunrise Hills Plaza; staff is agreeable to the parking
being relocated to a new location as long as it meets the requirements of the Zoning Code.

At the close of public comment the Planning Commission discussed the project and their
discussion is summarized below:

Concerns
   · Concern with the off-site parking agreement and alternate location may alter site plan;
   · Concern that the project does not meet the goals of the design guidelines in the Zoning
      Code;
   · Concern that the project does not meet the design intent of the Antelope Crossing
      Transformation Plan;
   · Would like to see the project include more actions that would help the City meets its
      Greenhouse Gas Reduction goals; and

Support
   · Cardroom will provide jobs for local residents;
   · Restaurant will provide services lacking in the neighborhood;
   · 24-hour business within the center will help provide a more secure environment;
   · The project fits the Antelope Crossing Transformation Plan by providing services within
      the area;
   · The project is suitable for the site; and
   · Ordinance Text changes seem appropriate for the project;

After the conclusion of the discussion, the Planning Commission voted on the project and has
recommended the City Council approve the project based upon the following votes:

   ·   Adopt Resolution 2013-____, adopting the Negative Declaration as the appropriate level
       of environmental review for the project (Passed by vote 7-0);

   ·   Approve Ordinance Text Amendment 2013-____ to amend Zoning Code Sections 106.26
       and 106.42.020.C (Passed by vote 7-0); and

   ·   Approve Use Permit UP-12-06 to allow the relocation of two existing cardrooms and
       approve Design Review Permit Modification DRPMOD-12-09 for the proposed building
       renovations at 6510 and 6508 Antelope Road (Passed by vote 6-1).

Environmental Determination
A Negative Declaration (Exhibit A) has been prepared and has been determined to be the
appropriate level of environmental review based upon the initial study prepared for the project.
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     5 of 11

The initial study determined the proposed development is an infill commercial development
surrounded by commercial development on all sides and that no evidence has been presented to
staff which would suggest that the proposed development will result in a significant impact to the
environment.

Conclusion
At the conclusion of the public testimony, the Planning Commission discussed the project and
voted to recommend that the City Council approve the project. The City Council should
consider the information provided within this report and the Planning Commission staff report
(Attachment A1). If the City Council supports the required findings listed within this report,
than the City Council should approve the project using Motions listed below:

Motions

    A. Adopt Resolution 2013-____, adopting the Negative Declaration as the appropriate level
       of environmental review for the project;

    B. Introduce, read by title only, and waive the first reading of Ordinance Text Amendment
       2013-____ to amend Zoning Code Sections 106.26 and 106.42.020.C based upon the
       findings listed within the report; and

    C. Approve Use Permit UP-12-06 to allow the relocation of two existing cardrooms and
       approve Design Review Permit Modification DRPMOD-12-09 for the proposed building
       renovations at 6510 and 6508 Antelope Road based upon the findings and conditions of
       approval listed within the report.


Ordinance Text Amendment Findings

   ·   The proposed amendment to modify the Zoning Code to add cardrooms as permitted by
       Use Permit within the SC zone and to add cardrooms as an allowable distance exception
       from consideration points in regards to alcohol sales, is consistent with the General Plan;
       and

   ·   The proposed amendment to modify the Zoning Code to add cardrooms as permitted by
       Use Permit within the SC zone and to add cardrooms as an allowable distance exception
       from consideration points in regards to alcohol sales, would not be detrimental to the
       public, interest, health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the City.

Use Permit Findings

   ·   The proposed cardrooms/restaurant/bar use is allowed within the Special Planning Area
       and SC zoning district and complies with all other applicable provisions of the Zoning
       Code and Municipal Code.
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     6 of 11

   ·   The proposed cardrooms/restaurant/bar use is consistent with the General Plan and the
       Antelope Crossing Transformation Plan.

   ·   The design, location, size, and operating characteristics of the cardrooms/restaurant/bar
       are compatible with the existing and future land uses in the vicinity.

   ·   The site is physically suitable for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar use, including access,
       utilities, and the absence of physical constraints.

   ·   Granting the permit would not be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety,
       convenience, or welfare, or materially injurious to persons, property, or improvements in
       the vicinity and zoning district in which the cardrooms/restaurant/bar project is located.

Design Review Permit Findings

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar complies with the Design Review section
       and all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides architectural design, building
       massing and scale, and street and lot layout in the case of a subdivision, that are
       appropriate to and compatible with the site surroundings and the community.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides attractive and desirable site layout
       and design, including building arrangement, exterior appearance and setbacks, drainage,
       fences and walls, grading, landscaping, lighting, signs, and etcetera.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides safe and efficient public access,
       circulation and parking, including bicycle and pedestrian accommodations where
       appropriate.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides appropriate open space and
       landscaping, including the use of water efficient landscaping.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar is consistent with the General Plan, and the
       Antelope Crossing Transformation Plan.

   ·   The cardrooms/restaurant/bar complies with all applicable design standards in Chapter
       106.31 (Design Standards), and/or other applicable City design guidelines and policies.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR USE PERMIT

1) The applicant shall comply with all laws of the State of California, including State gaming
   laws, all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including but not limited to the
   Citrus Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, and Sacramento County Environmental
   Health Department standards.
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     7 of 11



2) The use approved by this action is to allow the 24-hour operation of two separate cardrooms
   with a restaurant and bar service as permitted by the State of California. The project shall
   operate as described herein and as shown in Exhibits A through L as conditioned below.
   Minor changes to the project may be approved by the Community and Economic
   Development Director provided such changes are consistent with the overall description of
   the project approved herein. (Planning)

3) This Use Permit allows the City's two existing cardrooms, 5948 Auburn Boulevard and 7433
   Greenback Lane, to relocate to a new location at 6508/6510 Antelope Road. The Use Permit
   does not provide an increase in the number of gaming licenses nor the number of gaming
   tables currently allowed within the City of Citrus Heights. At no time shall the existing
   locations (5948 Auburn Boulevard and 7433 Greenback Lane) operate concurrently with
   6508/6510 Antelope Road location.

4) 6508 Antelope Road shall maintain no more than 15 gaming tables. If State law allows for
   an increase in gaming tables, than the applicant is required to apply for a Use Permit
   Modification with the Planning Division. (Planning)

5) 6510 Antelope Road shall provide no more than 15 gaming tables. If State law allows for an
   increase in gaming tables than the applicant, is required to apply for a Use Permit
   Modification with the Planning Division. (Planning)

6) Gaming, including gaming tournaments, shall only occur within the areas defined on the
   floor plan as Main Hall, Cal Games, and Poker Room. Other entertainment activities shall
   not occur within these gaming areas. (Planning)

7) The approval of this Use Permit shall expire two (2) years after the date of its initial
   approval, unless a building permit has been issued for work described in the project. After
   the permit has been exercised, it shall remain valid and run with the land as regulated by the
   Zoning Code. (Planning)

8) The project shall operate in accordance with the submitted security plan, Exhibit K. Any
   modifications to the plan shall be approved in advance by the Chief of Police in writing. The
   Police Chief, in consultation with the Community and Economic Development Director, has
   the authority to mandate a revised security plan, up to and including an increase in the
   number of security personnel. (Police)

9) Applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City, its officials, officers,
   employees, agents and consultants from any and all administrative, legal or equitable actions
   or other proceedings instituted by any person not a party to this permit challenging the
   validity of the Permit or any Project Approval or any Subsequent Project Approval, or
   otherwise arising out of or stemming from this Permit. Applicant may select its own legal
   counsel to represent Applicant's interests at Applicant's sole cost and expense. The parties
   shall cooperate in defending such action or proceeding. Applicant shall pay for City's costs
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     8 of 11

     of defense, whether directly or by timely reimbursement on a monthly basis. Such costs shall
     include, but not be limited to, all court costs and attorneys' fees expended by City in defense
     of any such action or other proceeding, plus staff and time of the City Attorney's Office
     spent in regard to defense of the action or proceeding. The parties shall use best efforts to
     select mutually agreeable defense counsel but, if the parties cannot reach agreement, City
     may select its own legal counsel and Applicant agrees to pay directly or timely reimburse on
     a monthly basis City for all such court costs, attorney fees, and time referenced
     herein.(Planning)

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT MODIFICATION

General Conditions

1) The applicant shall comply with all laws of the State of California, including State gaming
   laws, all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including but not limited to the
   Citrus Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, Uniform Building Code; Uniform Fire
   Code and Sacramento County Environmental Health Department standards.

2) The development approved by this action is described herein and as shown in Exhibits A
   through L and as conditioned below. Minor changes to the design of the project may be
   approved by the Community and Economic Development Director provided such changes
   are consistent with the overall design as approved herein. (Planning)

3) The approval of this Design Review Permit shall expire in two (2) years after the date of its
   initial approval, unless a building permit has been issued for work described in the project.
   After the permit has been exercised, it shall remain valid and run with the land as regulated
   by the Zoning Code. (Planning)

4) The applicant shall comply with all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including
   but not limited to the Citrus Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, Uniform Building
   Code; Uniform Fire Code and Sacramento County Environmental Health Department
   standards.

Conditions Required Prior to Issuance of Building Permit


5)   The parking shall comply with the requirements of the Zoning Code. In the event that the
     required parking cannot be completely provided at the project site, an off-site parking
     agreement, in compliance with the Zoning Code, shall be recorded between the applicant and
     a nearby off-site facility. This agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
     Division prior to being filed with the Sacramento County Recorder's Office. A recorded
     copy must be provided to the Planning Division prior to issuance of a Building Permit.
     (Planning)
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     9 of 11

6) The applicant shall submit a plan for approval by the Planning Division that provides
   appropriate landscaping within the planter that is adjacent to the off-site parking area along
   the northwest property line, in the event this area is utilized for off-site parking. (Planning)

7) Additional sewer impact fee may be required and must be paid before issuance of the permit.
   Contact PSU at 916-876-6100 for further information on sewer impact fee. (SASD)

Conditions Required Prior to Final of Building Permit

8) The applicant shall work with the Planning Division to determine the appropriate location for
   the installation of bicycle racks in accordance with Section 106.36.060 of the Zoning Code.
   (Planning)

9) The applicant is responsible for permitting and construction of the following road
   improvements. The applicant shall submit plans to the City of Citrus Heights Engineering
   Division prior to submittal to CalTrans. The applicant shall show proof of plan submittal to
   CalTrans prior to the release of the building permit. If the work is not completed prior to
   occupancy, the Applicant shall bond (150% of the engineers estimate) with the City for these
   improvements prior to building occupancy.

   a) Extend approximately 100' the westbound left-turn pocket on Antelope Road at Lichen
      Drive to a total length of 300 feet.

   b) Re-stripe the westbound lanes on Antelope Road between the I-80 WB Off-Ramp and
      Lichen Drive to include three (3) thru lanes (11-ft minimum width), 4" Right edge line,
      and all necessary legends and markings.

   c) Re-stripe the eastbound lanes on Antelope Road between Lichen Drive and the stop bar at
      the I-80 WB Off-Ramp to include three (3) thru lanes (11-ft minimum width) and all
      necessary legends and markings. (Engineering)

10) The applicant shall provide enhanced intersection striping and signage for the internal site
    intersection south of the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. The
    striping plan shall be approved by the City of Citrus Heights prior to installation and the plan
    shall include the following:

   a) Delineation of dedicated left and through/right lanes on the southbound approach.
   b) STOP bars / signs on the northbound, eastbound, and westbound approaches.
   c) Signs at the eastbound and westbound approaches indicating that "Traffic from Left
      (Right) Does Not Stop" [W4-4aP (Left) and W4-4aP (Right)]
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     10 of 11

11) The applicant shall work with the Engineering Division to increase the maximum green time
    for the westbound left-turn lane movement at the antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project
    Driveway intersection from 18.5 seconds to 24.5 seconds. (Engineering)

12) The applicant shall screen all roof mounted equipment. Rooftop screening of mechanical
    equipment shall be provided through architectural design of the building elevations.
    (Planning)

13) The walls of the trash enclosures shall be treated with anti-graffiti coating.(Planning)

14) Prior to the Final of Building Permits, the applicant shall call for inspection by the Planning
    Division to verify compliance with the approved plans.(Planning)

15) The property is currently connected to public sewer. Sewer service shall continue to be
    provided by SASD infrastructure to the existing sewer service lateral. Required
    modifications, if any, shall be to the satisfaction of SASD. SASD Design Standards apply to
    any sewer construction and/or modification. (SASD)

16) Demonstrate the existence of, and if needed, abandon the existing easement along the subject
    property's north boundary and grant SASD a sewer access and maintenance easement along
    the existing sewer pipeline near the property's north boundary. Easements from adjoining
    parcels are not required. The sewer easement shall be dedicated to SASD, in a form
    approved by the District Engineer. All SASD sewer easements shall be at least 20 feet in
    width and ensure continuous access for installation and maintenance. Easement documents
    must be submitted before approval of the improvement plan and/or issuance of the building
    permits. (SASD)

17) The applicant shall comply with the requirements of California American Water. Specifically
    the applicant shall comply with the following:

   a) Fire protection facilities and requirements will need to be determined by the Sacramento
      Metropolitan Fire District.

   b) Any existing steamer fire hydrant and fire sprinkler connections that do not meet the
      current standards and require replacement by the Applicant at the Applicant 's expense.

   c) Any existing metered water service and backflow prevention assemblies do not meet the
      current District standards and will require replacement by the Applicant at the
      developer's expense.

Site Maintenance

18) Parking lot surface and striping shall be maintained in good repair. (Planning)

19) Any graffiti shall be removed within 24-hours (Planning)
Subject: Relocation of Two Cardrooms Project
Date: May 23, 2013
Page     11 of 11



20) Outdoor lighting shall be maintained in good working order. (Planning)

21) All landscaping shall remain watered and in a healthy condition. (Planning)

22) Ensure that addressing for the project is clearly indicated. Approved numbers or addressed
    shall be not less than six inches and shall be mounted immediately adjacent to a light source
    and shall also contrast with their background. (Fire)

23) The project shall provide clear and easy accessibility and connectivity for all transit users,
    including those with disabilities.(RT)

24) Applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City, its officials, officers,
    employees, agents and consultants from any and all administrative, legal or equitable actions
    or other proceedings instituted by any person not a party to this permit challenging the
    validity of the Permit or any Project Approval or any Subsequent Project Approval, or
    otherwise arising out of or stemming from this Permit. Applicant may select its own legal
    counsel to represent Applicant's interests at Applicant's sole cost and expense. The parties
    shall cooperate in defending such action or proceeding. Applicant shall pay for City's costs
    of defense, whether directly or by timely reimbursement on a monthly basis. Such costs shall
    include, but not be limited to, all court costs and attorneys' fees expended by City in defense
    of any such action or other proceeding, plus staff and time of the City Attorney's Office
    spent in regard to defense of the action or proceeding. The parties shall use best efforts to
    select mutually agreeable defense counsel but, if the parties cannot reach agreement, City
    may select its own legal counsel and Applicant agrees to pay directly or timely reimburse on
    a monthly basis City for all such court costs, attorney fees, and time referenced herein.
    (Planning)

Attachments:
A1.    Planning Commission Staff Report (w/o attachments or exhibits)
1.     Vicinity Map
2.     Colored Plan Set 11x17
3.     E-mails from Debbie Tobar/Tonya Wagner/Jack Sales (including applicant's response)
4.     Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Environmental/Sustainable Measures
5.     Traffic Study
6.     Letter received 4/10/2013 from Marcus Lo Duca

Exhibits:
A.       Resolution w/ Negative Declaration
B.        Ordinance w/Text Amendments
C.        Project Description
D.        Nighttime Simulation and Materials A.50
E.        Site Plan A1.0
F.        Floor Plan A2.0
G.        Elevation Plan A4.0
H.        Landscape Plan L1.0
I.        Lighting Plan LT1.0
J.        Photometric Site Plan LT2.0
K.        Security Plan
                                                                              Attachment A-1



                    CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS
                    PLANNING DIVISION STAFF REPORT
                    PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING                             April 10, 2013

                    Prepared by: Alison Bermudez, Associate Planner

REQUEST

The applicant is requesting multiple planning entitlements that would allow the two existing
cardrooms in the City (Lucky Derby & Phoenix) to relocate to an existing building where the
cardrooms would operate separately within the same building. The Cardroom project will also
include on-site alcohol sales and a restaurant open to the cardroom patrons and the general
public.

Project Name:                 Relocation of Two Cardrooms
Project Location:             6510 Antelope Road/6508 Antelope Road
Parcel Number:                209-0240-025
File Numbers:                 OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, and DRPMOD-12-09

Applicant/Property Owner:     Masis Kevorkian
                              Kings Casino, LLC
                              7727 Herschel Ave
                              La Jolla, CA 92037

SUMMARY RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission make the following motion:

    A. Recommend that the City Council adopt Resolution 2013-____, adopting the Negative
       Declaration as the appropriate level of environmental review for the project;

    B. Recommend that the City Council approve Ordinance Text Amendment 2013-____ to
       amend Zoning Code Sections 106.26 and 106.42.020.C; and

    C. Recommend that the City Council approve Use Permit UP-12-06 to allow the relocation
       of two existing cardrooms and approve Design Review Permit Modification DRPMOD-
       12-09 for the proposed building renovations at 6510 and 6508 Antelope Road.

BACKGROUND

The Phoenix Cardroom, 5948 Auburn Boulevard, licensed for 15 cardtables, and the Lucky
Derby, 7433 Greenback Lane, which is licensed for 15 cardtables, have both been in operation
in the City for over twenty years. Both cardrooms offer a small dining area with bar services and
operate 24-hours-a-day.

Kings Casino, LLC has purchased both cardrooms and will be filing applications with the State
of California to relocate both cardrooms to a new location. The proposed relocation will allow
the two cardrooms to operate separately within the same building. The proposed location is an
existing vacant building that will be split into two spaces, 6510 Antelope Road and 6508
Antelope Road. The building is located off I-80 at Antelope Road and is within the Antelope
Crossing business district.
                                                    Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                        April 10, 2013    Page 2

The project setting is summarized in the tables below:
Table 1
 Location:                   6508/6510 Antelope Road, located in the southwest shopping
                             center off of I-80 and Antelope Road (exit 100).
 Parcel Size:                1.88 acres
 REACH Neighborhood:         The site is within the boundaries of the Northwest Neighborhood
                             Association (Area 1) and adjacent to the Citrus Heights
                             Association Number Three (CHANT).

ZONING AND LAND USES
Table 2
LOCATION                    ZONING                      GENERAL PLAN                ACTUAL USE
                                                          LAND USE

On-Site       Special Planning Area (SC Uses)        General Commercial        Vacant Retail
North         Special Planning Area (SC Uses)        General Commercial        Popeye's Restaurant
South         Special Planning Area (SC Uses)        General Commercial        Mixed Retail/Church
East          Special Planning Area (SC Uses)        General Commercial        Multi-story Office
                                                                               Building
West          Special Planning Area (SC Uses)        General Commercial        Mixed Retail

The project is located within the Antelope Crossing Special Planning Area, recently renamed from
the Antelope Road/I-80 Special Planning Area. The plan area allows for land uses that are
consistent with the Shopping Center (SC) zoning district.

Cardrooms are regulated by State law as well as local ordinances. The applicant is in the process
of becoming licensed from the State of California to operate the two cardrooms. Due to the lengthy
and complex licensing process with the State, the applicant is initiating City entitlements prior to the
State's approval of the cardroom operator licenses. If the applicant does not receive approval from
the State of California Gaming Commission, this project will not move forward. The applicant will
also need to obtain approval for the relocation of the cardrooms, which he will move forward with
after the City's entitlements are obtained.

California Cardrooms are licensed to offer all types of gaming with the exception of slot machines,
craps, and roulette. Currently, both the Lucky Derby and the Phoenix are licensed to operate 15
cardtables each. The current proposal to relocate the cardrooms to a new location would not
increase the number of tables currently permitted at each cardroom. The project would not
increase the number of cardrooms in existence within the City since the current facilities would
close if the relocation is approved. Finally, due to a Statewide moratorium on gambling, the State
is not issuing new cardroom licenses in the City, so the City will only have two cardrooms.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The applicant is proposing to reuse an existing vacant building located on the southwest side of
Antelope Road, adjacent the I-80 freeway. The applicant proposes to relocate the City's two
existing cardrooms to this new location where both cardrooms would operate independently but
within one building. The cardrooms would offer card games legal in California such as Blackjack
and a variety of poker games. There will be no slot machines within the facility.
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                      April 10, 2013    Page 3

The project will include two minor building expansions that will increase the existing 23,928 square
foot building to 24,941 square feet, a 1,013 net square foot increase. The interior of the building
will be divided to allow for the separation of the cardrooms (6508/6510 Antelope Road) as well as
the addition of the restaurant.

The project aims to serve a broad audience by not only offering the table games but intends for the
restaurant/bar to become a destination for the area. The restaurant will provide food 24-hours-a-
day with a limited menu on off-peak hours. The restaurant will be designed to offer areas for
intimate dining as well as space for parties and business meetings. The design includes a direct
entrance for patrons wanting to visit the restaurant/bar without having to walk through the cardroom
area.

This project will require the adoption of a Negative Declaration and the approval of three different
entitlements: 1) an Ordinance Text Amendment to modify the Zoning Code to allow cardrooms by
Use Permit within the "SC" zoning district and to include cardrooms as an allowable "exception" to
the distance separation between alcohol establishments; 2) a Use Permit to allow the operation of
the cardrooms with alcohol service and allow off-site parking; and 3) a Design Review Permit
Modification to allow significant exterior changes to the building and minor building expansions for
the cardrooms.

The Zoning Code states that if an applicant submits more than one permit application for the same
project, the applications shall be processed concurrently, with all the permits being considered and
acted upon by the highest review authority required by the permits. Therefore since this project
includes an Ordinance Text Amendment that requires City Council action, all of the entitlements for
this project will receive final action by the City Council. The Planning Commission is asked to
review this project and, based on the analysis below, forward its recommendation to the City
Council.

ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS

This project includes two Zoning Code text changes (Exhibit B), an Ordinance Text Amendment to
modify the Land Use Table to include "cardrooms" as an allowed use within the Shopping Center
zone and an amendment to the Alcoholic Beverage Sales Section to include "cardrooms" as an
exception to the distance separation requirements between an alcoholic beverage sales location
and a "consideration point".

Ordinance Text Amendments ­ Analysis

Table 2-5 ­ Allowed Commercial Uses
The property is located in a Special Planning Area "Antelope Crossing". Special Planning Areas
(SPA) are zoning districts that are intended to allow flexibility in the application of Zoning Code
standards due to unique circumstances. The Antelope Crossing SPA was in place when the City
incorporated in 1997. This SPA was created to ensure that property in this area was developed in
a manner that was compatible with existing residential uses in the vicinity and that presented an
attractive appearance from I-80. The allowed land uses within this SPA are those identified in the
"SC" (Shopping Center) zoning district. According to Table 2-5 of the Zoning Code, cardrooms are
currently only allowed by Use Permit within the GC (General Commercial) zone. The applicant has
included with this project an ordinance text amendment that would revise the zoning table to also
allow cardrooms in the SC zone with an approved Use Permit.

The Zoning Code states that the SC and GC zoning districts allow for a wide range of commercial
land uses including retail and other services. Maintaining the Use Permit requirement will provide
                                                   Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                       April 10, 2013    Page 4

the ability for the City to review each application for compatibility of the project to the surrounding
neighborhood and/or community. Both the SC and GC zone fall within the GC General Plan
designation. Staff supports the ordinance text amendment to modify Table 2-5 to allow cardrooms
by Use Permit within the SC zone.

It should also be noted that cardrooms are regulated by the State of California and the City's
Municipal Code. All cardrooms and cardroom operators must be licensed by the State of
California, a very lengthy and thorough process. In addition, the City's Municipal Code only allows
two cardrooms within City limits and currently there are two cardrooms in existence. This project is
a relocation of those cardrooms and the Zoning Code change will not effect that regulation.

106.42.020 ­ Alcoholic Beverage Sales Ordinance Amendment
The City's Alcoholic Beverage regulations require a distance separation of alcohol establishments
(bars, taverns, liquor/convenience stores, etc.) from certain "consideration points". Consideration
points include places such as schools, churches, hospitals, and parks as well as any other alcohol
establishments. The regulations provide exceptions to the distance from these consideration
points. Establishments that are exempt from meeting the separation distance include restaurants,
food markets, supermarkets, drugstore, and similar uses. Since the Cardroom Project includes an
on-site alcohol establishment that currently would not be allowed at this location, the applicant has
requested an ordinance text amendment that would add cardrooms to the exception list for not
requiring the distance separation.

Ordinance Text Amendments - Conclusion

The Planning Commission must make the following findings in order to approve the application
for Zoning Code Amendment:

   ·   The proposed amendment is consistent with the General Plan; and
   ·   The proposed amendment would not be detrimental to the public, interest, health, safety,
       convenience, or welfare of the City.

Based upon the discussion above, staff supports the proposed changes to amend the Zoning Code
to add cardrooms as permitted by Use Permit within the SC zone and include cardrooms to the list
of exceptions for distance separation requirements in regards to alcohol sale locations from certain
consideration points.

It should be noted that without the approval of these two ordinance text amendments, the project
will not be consistent with the Zoning Code and therefore would not be able to move forward.

 USE PERMIT

The applicant proposes to reuse an existing vacant commercial building for the relocation of the
City's two existing cardrooms. The cardrooms will relocate to the site and occupy separate
spaces within the building. The proposal also includes the addition of a restaurant/bar as
described in Exhibit C. 6510 Antelope Road (Main Hall) will provide 15 tables for a variety of
table games and will be accessed through entry A as shown on the Floor Plan, Exhibit F. 6508
Antelope Rod (Poker Room) will also provide 15 tables and will host poker games and
tournaments. This cardroom will be accessed through Entry B as shown on the Floor Plan,
Exhibit F. The rooms will be divided with interior glass walls, defining the separation of the two
cardrooms.
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                      April 10, 2013    Page 5

The project also includes the addition of an upscale restaurant/bar for the community. The
restaurant/bar will not only provide service to the patrons of the cardrooms but will be open to
the public for dining. The restaurant has been designed to allow patrons direct access to the
restaurant/bar area without traversing the gaming areas.

Based upon the Ordinance Text Amendment discussed earlier, a Use Permit is required for this
use within the SC (Shopping Center) zoning district.

Use Permit­ Analysis

Section 106.62.050.F of the Zoning Code consists of findings the Planning Commission must
make to approve or disapprove an application for a Use Permit. The findings are written below
in bold italics and are followed by a review of the proposal against the findings.

1. The proposed use is allowed within the applicable zoning district and complies with
   all other applicable provisions of the Zoning Code and Municipal Code.

The zoning designation for the subject property is Special Planning Area (SPA) which states
that land uses within this SPA shall be limited to those identified as permitted or conditional
within the SC (Shopping Center) zoning district. Currently the SC zoning district does not allow
cardrooms; included with this project is an Ordinance Text Amendment that proposes to amend
Table 2-5 of Chapter 106.26 to add cardrooms as permitted by issuance of a Use Permit within
the Shopping Center (SC) zoning district. The inclusion of cardrooms into the SC zoning
designation seems appropriate since the SC zone is applied to areas that offer a wide range of
retail and service land uses.

As mentioned, a component of the project is the inclusion of a bar into the facility. Currently, the
code would not allow an on-sale alcohol establishment at this location due to the close proximity
of other "consideration points". The project includes a Zoning Code amendment to add
"cardroom" as an exception to the list of uses that would be exempt from the distance
separation to these "consideration points". Staff supports this Zoning Code amendment since
the alcohol portion of the cardroom is a component of a larger project.

Amending the land use table to allow cardrooms within this zoning district and add cardrooms to
the list of exceptions for distance separation from consideration points is appropriate because
cardrooms provide a mix of uses besides the gaming that one would typically see in the SC
zone, including restaurant and bar services. With the approval of these two amendments, the
project will be consistent with the Zoning Code. The proposal also complies with the provisions
of the Zoning Code and the Municipal Code including parking, setbacks, building height and
other applicable development standards.

2. The proposed use is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable specific
   plan.

The General Plan land use designation is General Commercial which provides for retail uses,
services, restaurants, professional and administrative offices, and other similar and compatible
uses. The proposed cardrooms, restaurant and bar are consistent with the General Plan land
use designation of General Commercial. In addition the proposal is consistent with General
Plan goals and policies that support viable and attractive development within major corridors
and that encourage economic development. Some of the applicable General Plan goals and
policies are as follows:
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                      April 10, 2013    Page 6

   ·   Goal 10:        Achieve attractive, inviting and functional corridors.

   ·   Policy 10.1:    Require superior architectural and functional site design features for new
                       development projects along major corridors.

   ·   Goal 15:        Diversify the local economy to meet the present and future employment,
                       shopping, and service needs of Citrus Heights residents and sustain long-
                       term fiscal health.

   ·   Policy 59.4     Support provision of recreation facilities and services by private
                       businesses.

3. The design, location, size, and operating characteristics of the facility are compatible
   with the existing and future land uses in the vicinity.

The project site is an existing commercial center with a variety of retail and service uses. There is
a church to the south of the project and a liquor store to the west of the project site. A large
component of the project is inclusion of a full service restaurant/bar, a lacking amenity within this
part of the City.

The existing building will be remodeled to a contemporary design that will include a separate
entry for each cardroom as well as an alternate entry that will provide patrons a direct access to
the restaurant area without having to cross the gaming area. The site is surrounded by other
commercially designated parcels and commercial uses to the north, south, east, and west.

The project will reuse an existing building that is located within an existing shopping center. The
project is on the west side of I-80 freeway at the Antelope Road exit. The closest residential
properties are located on the east side of the freeway therefore the 24-hour operation will not
disturb any residences and many of the existing businesses within the shopping center are
currently open with extended evening hours (Taco Bell, Carl's Jr).

One of the features of the Main Hall is the restaurant and bar area component. The restaurant
is intended to not only provide food service for the patrons of the cardrooms but will be operated
and designed to add a full service food establishment to the neighborhood, a type of venue that
is currently lacking within this area of the City. The restaurant will serve a variety of menu
options and food will be available 24-hours-a-day, with the late night food service limited.
Alcohol will be served throughout the facility, including in the bar area, restaurant and to the
cardtables. This is consistent with how the two cardrooms currently operate at their existing
locations. The venue expects to hold a variety of events including card tournaments, comedy
nights, karaoke, and occasional live music. Any entertainment provided (outside the bounds of
gaming) will aim to appeal to all age levels and demographics and be held within the restaurant
portion of the building. The applicant has stated that the entertainment choices will be
thoroughly reviewed and planned as it is important that music and/or other noise does not
disrupt the patrons at the gaming tables. The Use Permit does not restrict the number or types
of events that may be held but the project is conditioned that if issues arise pertaining to
activities within the building, the City has the right to require the applicant modify the Use Permit
and/or the security plan as needed.

The applicant will be required to obtain an alcohol license from the Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control (ABC) and comply with all regulations established by ABC.
                                                   Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                       April 10, 2013    Page 7

Based upon the information discussed above, the design, location, size, and operating
characteristics of the facility are compatible with the existing and future land uses in the vicinity.

4. The site is physically suitable for the type, density and intensity of the use, including
   access, utilities, and the absence of physical constraints.

The project is the reuse of an existing building and all site improvements including utilities are
currently in place. The building was most recently used as a thrift store, but was originally built
as a large retail store. The building will receive exterior design changes and other associated
site improvements such as lighting and landscaping.

As part of the project, the City requested an intersection and queuing analysis be performed for
the intersections of Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway and Antelope Road/Zenith
Drive/Tupelo Driveway. The traffic analysis reviewed the existing conditions of these two
intersections. Projected project trips were added to the existing volumes to obtain scenarios as
described within the report prepared by Fehr and Peers (Attachment 5).

The intersection analysis portion of the study indicated that the project would cause modest
increases in delays at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. However,
operations would remain at Level of Service C (LOS). Policy 29.2 of the City's General Plan
specifies that LOS E or better is the goal for roadways and intersections during peak hours.
Since the project currently operates at LOS C and this project will not worsen the LOS, the LOS
for this project is consistent with this General Plan Policy.

The queuing analysis performed by Fehr and Peers did indicate that the current timing of the
green light and the existing length of the left turn pocket from Antelope Road may create
adverse queuing effects on Antelope Road. Therefore to be consistent with Policy 29.2 of the
General Plan, the following enhancements were identified by Fehr & Peers and have been
included as conditions of approval to address the expected vehicular queuing problem caused
by the project in the westbound left-turn lane at Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway:

   ·   Increase the westbound left-turn pocket length at the Antelope Road/Lichen
       Drive/Project Driveway intersection from 200 feet to 300 feet (DRP Condition 9A).

   ·   Increase the maximum green time for the westbound left-turn lane movement at the
       antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection from 18.5 seconds to 24.5
       seconds (DRP Condition 11).

In addition to the analysis performed by Fehr & Peers, the City's Engineering Division reviewed
the project and has included conditions of approval for the restriping of east/west bound lanes of
Antelope Road between Lichen Drive and the I-80 ramp (DRP Condition 9 b/c).

Fehr & Peers also reviewed the on-site circulation for the proposed project and offered
recommendations to improve internal circulation such as enhanced stripping and signage.
These recommendations have been included as a condition of approval (DRP Condition 10).

Based upon the recommended conditions of approval and that the existing site is currently a
fully developed commercial center, there are no identifiable physical constraints for the
proposed use.

5. Granting the permit would not be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety,
   convenience, or welfare, or materially injurious to persons, property, or
                                                    Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                        April 10, 2013    Page 8

   improvements in the vicinity and zoning district in which the proposed project is
   located.

This project is the relocation of the two existing cardrooms (Lucky Derby and the Phoenix) into
this new location, on one site. Currently, both the Lucky Derby and the Phoenix Cardroom have
worked well with the Police Department on security and have presented very few calls for
service. The applicant has provided a security plan for the Project (Exhibit K) that has been
reviewed and accepted by the Citrus Heights Police Department. Highlights of the security plan
include all guards are armed and trained as required by law; a typical day will have 3-4 guards
on duty at any given time; the site, including building, parking area, and off-site parking area, will
be under recorded video surveillance. The project is conditioned that if issues arise, the Police
Department has the ability to require a modification to the security plan including additional
guards, training, or other measures (UP Condition 8).

Use Permit - Conclusion

Based upon the information above, staff believes that the required findings to approve a Use
Permit can be made that would authorize the operation of two cardrooms/restaurant/bar subject
to the findings and conditions of approval contained in the staff report.

DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT MODIFICATION

The project includes the reuse of an existing building that has recently operated as a gym and a
thrift store without any exterior changes since its original development as a retail store in 1985.
The applicant proposes to modify the exterior to add a contemporary element and enhance the
building's freeway visibility. The building entries will become focal points with the addition of a
colorful transparent glass glazing system on both the northwest and southeast sides of the
buildings as shown below. The project also includes two minor building expansions, netting the
building increase of 1,013 square feet. One small expansion will occur at the front entry and the
other expansion will be in the rear of the building that will serve as the employee break room.

The design includes the building to be painted a stone grey that will allow a muted backdrop for
the colorful glass entry features on both sides of the building. The new entry glazing wall
systems are made up of a variety of artful colors including shades of orange, cranberry, grey,
blue, and transparent glass. The pictures below represent the building design and a material
board will be provided at the meeting.




 Northwest elevation (Antelope Road side) (see material board for more accurate representation of colors)




 Southeast elevation (freeway side) (see material board for more accurate representation of colors)
                                                 Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                     April 10, 2013    Page 9


Design Review Permit Modification­ Analysis

Section 106.62.040 of the Zoning Code consists of required findings that the Planning
Commission must make to approve or disapprove an application for Design Review approval.
The required findings are written below in bold italics and are followed by a review of the
proposal against the findings.

1. The proposal complies with the Design Review section and all other applicable
   provisions of this Zoning Code.

The existing building is 23,928 square feet and the project includes minor building expansions that
will increase the building to 24,941 square feet (1,013 net additional square feet). The existing
building, including the addition, complies with the provisions of the Zoning Code, including the
building floor area, development standards and commercial design guidelines.

2. The proposal provides architectural design, building massing and scale, and street
   and lot layout in the case of a subdivision, that are appropriate to and compatible with
   the site surroundings and the community.

3. The proposal provides attractive and desirable site layout and design, including
   building arrangement, exterior appearance and setbacks, drainage, fences and walls,
   grading, landscaping, lighting, signs, and etcetera.

Site Plan
The project is an existing building within a developed commercial center. The project does
include two minor building expansions as shown in the site plan below:

                                     Antelope Road



                                                                  Building
                                                                  Expansion




                                                                      North

          Building
          Expansion
                                                   Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                     April 10, 2013     Page 10


Architecture
The applicant proposes exterior modifications to the building to enhance its appearance and
street presence. The overall building design will remain the same but will be given a new look
by replacing the existing large glass system on the front and rear of the building, by adding a
parapet to provide new height to the building, as well as painting the building with a new color
scheme.

The biggest change will be the replacement of the current dark tinted glazing system. The new
glazing system provides a mixture of medium-opacity dark-colored glass and fully-opaque
opaque patterns on light-colored glass as shown in Attachment 2.

The combination of varying colored glass and other materials in the design of the building help
to create an interesting and attractive building that staff believes will enhance the appearance of
the site.

Lighting
The existing outdoor lighting system will be updated and have been designed with energy
efficient sources that respect the Night Sky and neighboring properties. Six additional parking
lot lights will be installed in places where the site was deficient in the appropriate lighting levels
for safety and security of the patrons. The lighting has been designed to be compliant with Title
24 lighting power density allowances and lighting will be controlled such that 50% is off when
not needed). Sheet A.50 (Exhibit D) demonstrates the how the project will appear at night.

An email was received from Jack Sales, resident, who was concerned with the lighting levels at
the site. Mr. Sales comments were provided to the applicant who made many of the revisions
as suggested by Mr. Sales. Mr. Sales comments and the applicant's response can be found in
Attachment 3. The lighting plan provided by the applicant meets the requirements of the City of
Citrus Heights and will be verified for Title 24 compliance upon submission for the building
permit.

The project also includes design strategies that will provide thermal comfort and daylighting
issues by maintaining energy-efficient glazing and exterior solar shading at south-facing glazed
curtain walls.

Trash Collection
The site currently has one trash collection area for solid waste and recyclable materials storage.
The applicant will install a second collection area along the southeast side of the building.
These two collection areas are in a convenient location for access by employees. A condition
has also been added to the staff report requiring the enclosure walls treated with an anti-graffiti
coating (DRP Condition 13).

Service/Employee Entrances
The building will accessed by employees and delivery goods providers through two restricted
entrances along the south side of the building. Restaurant deliveries will access through the
southeast side entrance and cardroom deliveries will have access through the southwest side
entrance.

4. The proposal provides safe and efficient public access, circulation and parking,
   including bicycle and pedestrian accommodations where appropriate.
                                                 Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                   April 10, 2013     Page 11

Access
The site is currently accessible from one main driveway off of Antelope Road. Since the project
is located within a fully developed commercial center, the building can be accessed through the
center's other driveways along Antelope Road and Tupelo Drive. The main driveway location at
Antelope Road and Lichen Drive is a signalized turn for those turning left into the project site.
As part of the traffic study that was discussed earlier, the turn pocket for this left turn will be
extended in length to accommodate the additional traffic.

Parking
The Zoning Code requires that cardrooms/bars provide one space per three seats and
restaurants provide one parking space for each 50 square feet. The City's cardroom ordinance
identifies that for the purpose of calculating parking, each card table is deemed to have ten (10)
seats. The project also includes the standard requirement of bicycle and motorcycle parking as
required by the Zoning Code.

Table 3
                                       Parking Summary
 Use                             Parking Requirement                      Required

 Main Dining Area                1 per 50 SF of Area      874 SF          18 Spaces
 Bar/Bar Dining                  1 per 3 Seats            126 Seats       42 Spaces
 Corporate Meeting Room          1 per 50 SF of Area      744 SF          15 Spaces
 6510 Antelope Road - Main       1 per 3 Seats            150 Seats       50 Spaces
 Gaming Room
 6508 Antelope      Road     -   1 per 3 Seats            150 Seats       50 Spaces
 Poker Room

 Sub-Total Required                                                       175 Spaces
 10% Reduction Allowance for Reuse of Building                            -18 Spaces
 TOTAL REQUIRED                                                           157 Spaces
 Spaces Provided On-Site                                                  115 Spaces
 Spaces Provided Off-Site                                                 42 Spaces
 Total Available                                                          157 Spaces

As shown below in Table 3 above, the parking available on-site does not meet the requirements
of the Zoning Code, therefore the applicant has secured an agreement with the adjoining
property owner to lease 42 spaces for employee and overflow parking. Section 106.36.0870.G.
of the Zoning Code allows required parking to be located off-site if those spaces are located
within 300 feet of the site and also requires the guarantee of continued availability for the
parking spaces. The project is compliant with the off-site parking requirements since the spaces
are located on the adjoining property as well as a condition has been placed on the project that
requires a parking agreement for the use of the spaces be recorded prior to occupancy of the
building (DRP Condition 5).
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                    April 10, 2013     Page 12

5. The proposal provides appropriate open space and landscaping, including the use of
   water efficient landscaping.

Landscaping
The proposal will include new landscaping consisting of a combination of shade and ornamental
trees, shrubs and groundcover within the parking lot and site perimeter (Exhibit H). The project
proposes to remove and replace 19 existing trees, all but one of those trees are less than six
inches in diameter. The site will have a net increase of four new trees that are appropriate fast
growing shade trees that will enhance the aesthetics onsite plus increase shade coverage within
the parking lot.

In addition to the tree replacements, the project landscaping will include the addition of a variety
of ground covers, shrubs, vines as well as some decorative trees adjacent to the building. All
planter areas will be required to maintain an automatic watering system.

An area not shown on the landscape plan is the planter along the northwest property line that is
adjacent to the off-site parking. The project has been conditioned to provide landscaping within
this planter (DRP Condition 5).

6. The proposal is consistent with the General Plan, any applicable specific plan,
   development agreement, and/or any previously approved planning permit.

The General Plan land use designation on the subject property is General Commercial which
provides for retail uses, services, restaurants, professional and administrative offices, and other
similar and compatible uses. The proposed cardrooms and restaurant/bar are consistent with
the General Plan land use designation of General Commercial. Additionally the proposal is
consistent with the City's goals and policies that support viable and attractive commercial
development within major corridors and goals and policies that encourages economic
development in the community.

The applicant has demonstrated a variety of ways the project will assist in meeting the City's
General Plan and Greenhouse Reduction Plan to reduce GHG emissions including the reuse of
an existing building and materials, the installation of a more energy-efficient roof system, the
use of ecological-sensitive building materials, and variety of other measures as explained in
Attachment 4.

7. Complies with all applicable design standards in Chapter 106.31 (Design Standards),
   and/or other applicable City design guidelines and policies.

Building Design
The building was originally constructed as a retail store and has been used for a variety of uses
over time, including a gym and a thrift store. The most visible changes will be the replacement
of the existing glazing walls that are on the north and south building entries, the creation of the
entry "portal" on the building's north side, and the addition of the parapet to increase the
building's mass.

The new exterior glazing system on both the north and south sides of the building will be a
unique design feature. This new glazing system will replace the existing glazed curtain wall
system that uses clear, transparent glass with a dark tint. The new glazing assembly will
provide a mixture of medium-opacity dark-colored glass and light colored glass as shown in
Attachment 2.
                                                 Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                   April 10, 2013     Page 13

The proposed parapet will be an architectural feature to improve the existing building design by
enhancing the massing of the building. This parapet will be made of stucco to match the main
building and will run continuously around the upper roof of the main hall space.

The main entrance to the Main Hall, along the building's north side, will include a portal feature
that will provide a covered entry into the cardroom restaurant/bar.

Based upon the proposed design features of the building and the new parking area, staff
believes the project meets the above findings.

Design Review Permit ­ Conclusion

Based on the analysis above, staff believes that findings can be made to approve a Design
Review Permit for the proposed cardrooms/restaurant/bar plus associated site improvements.
Staff recommends approval of the requested Design Review Permit subject to the findings and
conditions of approval contained in the staff report.

ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION

A Negative Declaration (Exhibit A) has been prepared and has been determined to be the
appropriate level of environmental review based upon the initial study prepared for the project.
The initial study determined the proposed development is an infill commercial development
surrounded by commercial development on all sides and that no evidence has been presented
to staff which would suggest that the proposed development will result in a significant impact to
the environment.

PUBLIC OUTREACH

In August 2012, the applicant hosted an open house for the community at the proposed project
location. The applicant gave a brief presentation on the proposal and answered questions and
took feedback from those in attendance. The open house was attended by approximately 100
people, many from the neighboring businesses, Northwest Neighborhood Association, and other
interested parties. Information gathered at this gathering was used in designing the project.

The applicant submitted the application package in October 2012 and soon thereafter the City
provided project information to Neighborhood Associations #1 and #4. At the time of writing of
this report no formal comments have been received from either group although NA #1
acknowledges discussing the project with some members. Two emails were received on the
project, one from Jack Sales regarding the lighting (discussed earlier) and one from Debbie
Tobar who stated her objection to the project. Copies of email communications are provided as
Attachment 3.

Additional public outreach was provided through the posting of the project under the "Current
Happening" section of the City's website and the posting of the site with a development proposal
notification sign. A meeting notice was mailed to property owners within 500 feet of the site and
a notice was also sent to the Sacramento Bee for publishing.

RECOMMENDATION

Based upon the findings listed below, staff recommends that the Planning Commission make
the following motions:
                                                Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                  April 10, 2013     Page 14

The Planning Division recommends that the Planning Commission make the following motion:

A. Recommend that the City Council adopt Resolution 2013-____, adopting the Negative
   Declaration as the appropriate level of environmental review for the project;

    B. Recommend that the City Council approve Ordinance Text Amendment 2013-____ to
       amend Zoning Code Sections 106.26 and 106.42.020.C; and

    C. Recommend that the City Council approve Use Permit UP-12-06 to allow the relocation
       of two existing cardrooms and approve Design Review Permit Modification DRPMOD-
       12-09 for the proposed building renovations at 6510 and 6508 Antelope Road.

Ordinance Text Amendment Findings

   ·   The proposed amendment to modify the Zoning Code to add cardrooms as permitted by
       Use Permit within the SC zone and to add cardrooms as an allowable distance
       exception from consideration points in regards to alcohol sales, is consistent with the
       General Plan; and

   ·   The proposed amendment to modify the Zoning Code to add cardrooms as permitted by
       Use Permit within the SC zone and to add cardrooms as an allowable distance
       exception from consideration points in regards to alcohol sales, would not be detrimental
       to the public, interest, health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the City.

Use Permit Findings

   ·   The proposed cardrooms/restaurant/bar use is allowed within the Special Planning Area
       and SC zoning district and complies with all other applicable provisions of the Zoning
       Code and Municipal Code.

   ·   The proposed cardrooms/restaurant/bar use is consistent with the General Plan and the
       Antelope Crossing Transformation Plan.

   ·   The design, location, size, and operating characteristics of the cardrooms/restaurant/bar
       are compatible with the existing and future land uses in the vicinity.

   ·   The site is physically suitable for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar use, including access,
       utilities, and the absence of physical constraints.

   ·   Granting the permit would not be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety,
       convenience, or welfare, or materially injurious to persons, property, or improvements in
       the vicinity and zoning district in which the cardrooms/restaurant/bar project is located.

Design Review Permit Findings

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar complies with the Design Review section
       and all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides architectural design, building
       massing and scale, and street and lot layout in the case of a subdivision, that are
       appropriate to and compatible with the site surroundings and the community.
                                                 Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                   April 10, 2013     Page 15


   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides attractive and desirable site
       layout and design, including building arrangement, exterior appearance and setbacks,
       drainage, fences and walls, grading, landscaping, lighting, signs, and etcetera.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides safe and efficient public access,
       circulation and parking, including bicycle and pedestrian accommodations where
       appropriate.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar provides appropriate open space and
       landscaping, including the use of water efficient landscaping.

   ·   The proposal for the cardrooms/restaurant/bar is consistent with the General Plan, and
       the Antelope Crossing Transformation Plan.

   ·   The cardrooms/restaurant/bar complies with all applicable design standards in Chapter
       106.31 (Design Standards), and/or other applicable City design guidelines and policies.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR USE PERMIT

1) The applicant shall comply with all laws of the State of California, including State gaming
   laws, all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including but not limited to the Citrus
   Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, and Sacramento County Environmental Health
   Department standards.

2) The use approved by this action is to allow the 24-hour operation of two separate cardrooms
   with a restaurant and bar service as permitted by the State of California. The project shall
   operate as described herein and as shown in Exhibits A through L as conditioned below.
   Minor changes to the project may be approved by the Community and Economic
   Development Director provided such changes are consistent with the overall description of
   the project approved herein. (Planning)

3) This Use Permit allows the City's two existing cardrooms, 5948 Auburn Boulevard and 7433
   Greenback Lane, to relocate to a new location at 6508/6510 Antelope Road. The Use
   Permit does not provide an increase in the number of gaming licenses nor the number of
   gaming tables currently allowed within the City of Citrus Heights. At no time shall the
   existing locations (5948 Auburn Boulevard and 7433 Greenback Lane) operate concurrently
   with 6508/6510 Antelope Road location.

4) 6508 Antelope Road shall maintain no more than 15 gaming tables. If State law allows for
   an increase in gaming tables, than the applicant is required to apply for a Use Permit
   Modification with the Planning Division. (Planning)

5) 6510 Antelope Road shall provide no more than 15 gaming tables. If State law allows for an
   increase in gaming tables than the applicant, is required to apply for a Use Permit
   Modification with the Planning Division. (Planning)

6) Gaming, including gaming tournaments, shall only occur within the areas defined on the
   floor plan as Main Hall, Cal Games, and Poker Room. Other entertainment activities shall
   not occur within these gaming areas. (Planning)
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                    April 10, 2013     Page 16

7) The approval of this Use Permit shall expire two (2) years after the date of its initial approval,
   unless a building permit has been issued for work described in the project. After the permit
   has been exercised, it shall remain valid and run with the land as regulated by the Zoning
   Code. (Planning)

8) The project shall operate in accordance with the submitted security plan, Exhibit K. Any
   modifications to the plan shall be approved in advance by the Chief of Police in writing. The
   Police Chief, in consultation with the Community and Economic Development Director, has
   the authority to mandate a revised security plan, up to and including an increase in the
   number of security personnel. (Police)

9) Applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City, its officials, officers,
   employees, agents and consultants from any and all administrative, legal or equitable
   actions or other proceedings instituted by any person not a party to this permit challenging
   the validity of the Permit or any Project Approval or any Subsequent Project Approval, or
   otherwise arising out of or stemming from this Permit. Applicant may select its own legal
   counsel to represent Applicant's interests at Applicant's sole cost and expense. The parties
   shall cooperate in defending such action or proceeding. Applicant shall pay for City's costs
   of defense, whether directly or by timely reimbursement on a monthly basis. Such costs
   shall include, but not be limited to, all court costs and attorneys' fees expended by City in
   defense of any such action or other proceeding, plus staff and time of the City Attorney's
   Office spent in regard to defense of the action or proceeding. The parties shall use best
   efforts to select mutually agreeable defense counsel but, if the parties cannot reach
   agreement, City may select its own legal counsel and Applicant agrees to pay directly or
   timely reimburse on a monthly basis City for all such court costs, attorney fees, and time
   referenced herein.(Planning)

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT MODIFICATION

General Conditions

1) The applicant shall comply with all laws of the State of California, including State gaming
   laws, all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including but not limited to the Citrus
   Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, Uniform Building Code; Uniform Fire Code and
   Sacramento County Environmental Health Department standards.

2) The development approved by this action is described herein and as shown in Exhibits A
   through L and as conditioned below. Minor changes to the design of the project may be
   approved by the Community and Economic Development Director provided such changes
   are consistent with the overall design as approved herein. (Planning)

3) The approval of this Design Review Permit shall expire in two (2) years after the date of its
   initial approval, unless a building permit has been issued for work described in the project.
   After the permit has been exercised, it shall remain valid and run with the land as regulated
   by the Zoning Code. (Planning)

4) The applicant shall comply with all City of Citrus Heights Codes and Regulations, including
   but not limited to the Citrus Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code, Uniform Building
   Code; Uniform Fire Code and Sacramento County Environmental Health Department
   standards.
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                    April 10, 2013     Page 17

Conditions Required Prior to Issuance of Building Permit

5) A parking agreement shall be recorded between this center and the center to the south,
   known as 6454 Tupelo Drive. This agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the
   Planning Division prior to being filed with the Sacramento County Recorder's Office. A
   recorded copy must be provided to the Planning Division prior to issuance of a Building
   Permit. This agreement shall state that the parking spaces are committed until such time
   that all property owners involved in the Agreement receive written verification from the City
   of Citrus Heights that the land uses no longer require the off-site parking spaces. (Planning)

6) The applicant shall submit a plan for approval by the Planning Division that provides
   appropriate landscaping within the planter that is adjacent to the off-site parking area along
   the northwest property line. (Planning)

7) Additional sewer impact fee may be required and must be paid before issuance of the
   permit. Contact PSU at 916-876-6100 for further information on sewer impact fee. (SASD)

Conditions Required Prior to Final of Building Permit

8) The applicant shall work with the Planning Division to determine the appropriate location for
   the installation of bicycle racks in accordance with Section 106.36.060 of the Zoning Code.
   (Planning)

9) The applicant is responsible for permitting and construction of the following road
   improvements. The applicant shall submit plans to the City of Citrus Heights Engineering
   Division prior to submittal to CalTrans. The applicant shall show proof of plan submittal to
   CalTrans prior to the release of the building permit. If the work is not completed prior to
   occupancy, the Applicant shall bond (150% of the engineers estimate) with the City for these
   improvements prior to building occupancy.

   a) Extend approximately 100' the westbound left-turn pocket on Antelope Road at Lichen
      Drive to a total length of 300 feet.

   b) Re-stripe the westbound lanes on Antelope Road between the I-80 WB Off-Ramp and
      Lichen Drive to include three (3) thru lanes (11-ft minimum width), 4" Right edge line,
      and all necessary legends and markings.

   c) Re-stripe the eastbound lanes on Antelope Road between Lichen Drive and the stop bar
      at the I-80 WB Off-Ramp to include three (3) thru lanes (11-ft minimum width) and all
      necessary legends and markings. (Engineering)

10) The applicant shall provide enhanced intersection striping and signage for the internal site
    intersection south of the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. The
    striping plan shall be approved by the City of Citrus Heights prior to installation and the plan
    shall include the following:

   a) Delineation of dedicated left and through/right lanes on the southbound approach.
   b) STOP bars / signs on the northbound, eastbound, and westbound approaches.
   c) Signs at the eastbound and westbound approaches indicating that "Traffic from Left
      (Right) Does Not Stop" [W4-4aP (Left) and W4-4aP (Right)]
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                    April 10, 2013     Page 18


11) The applicant shall work with the Engineering Division to increase the maximum green time
    for the westbound left-turn lane movement at the antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project
    Driveway intersection from 18.5 seconds to 24.5 seconds. (Engineering)

12) The applicant shall screen all roof mounted equipment. Rooftop screening of mechanical
    equipment shall be provided through architectural design of the building elevations.
    (Planning)

13) The walls of the trash enclosures shall be treated with anti-graffiti coating.(Planning)

14) Prior to the Final of Building Permits, the applicant shall call for inspection by the Planning
    Division to verify compliance with the approved plans.(Planning)

15) The property is currently connected to public sewer. Sewer service shall continue to be
    provided by SASD infrastructure to the existing sewer service lateral. Required
    modifications, if any, shall be to the satisfaction of SASD. SASD Design Standards apply to
    any sewer construction and/or modification. (SASD)

16) Demonstrate the existence of, and if needed, abandon the existing easement along the
    subject property's north boundary and grant SASD a sewer access and maintenance
    easement along the existing sewer pipeline near the property's north boundary. Easements
    from adjoining parcels are not required. The sewer easement shall be dedicated to SASD,
    in a form approved by the District Engineer. All SASD sewer easements shall be at least 20
    feet in width and ensure continuous access for installation and maintenance. Easement
    documents must be submitted before approval of the improvement plan and/or issuance of
    the building permits. (SASD)

17) The applicant shall comply with the requirements of California American Water. Specifically
    the applicant shall comply with the following:

   a) Fire protection facilities and requirements will need to be determined by the Sacramento
      Metropolitan Fire District.

   b) Any existing steamer fire hydrant and fire sprinkler connections that do not meet the
      current standards and require replacement by the Applicant at the Applicant 's expense.

   c) Any existing metered water service and backflow prevention assemblies do not meet the
      current District standards and will require replacement by the Applicant at the
      developer's expense.

Site Maintenance

18) Parking lot surface and striping shall be maintained in good repair. (Planning)

19) Any graffiti shall be removed within 24-hours (Planning)

20) Outdoor lighting shall be maintained in good working order. (Planning)

21) All landscaping shall remain watered and in a healthy condition. (Planning)
                                                  Cardroom OTA-12-02, UP-12-06, & DRPMOD-12-09
                                                                    April 10, 2013     Page 19

22) Ensure that addressing for the project is clearly indicated. Approved numbers or addressed
    shall be not less than six inches and shall be mounted immediately adjacent to a light
    source and shall also contrast with their background. (Fire)

23) The project shall provide clear and easy accessibility and connectivity for all transit users,
    including those with disabilities.(RT)

24) Applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City, its officials, officers,
    employees, agents and consultants from any and all administrative, legal or equitable
    actions or other proceedings instituted by any person not a party to this permit challenging
    the validity of the Permit or any Project Approval or any Subsequent Project Approval, or
    otherwise arising out of or stemming from this Permit. Applicant may select its own legal
    counsel to represent Applicant 's interests at Applicant 's sole cost and expense. The
    parties shall cooperate in defending such action or proceeding. Applicant shall pay for City's
    costs of defense, whether directly or by timely reimbursement on a monthly basis. Such
    costs shall include, but not be limited to, all court costs and attorneys' fees expended by City
    in defense of any such action or other proceeding, plus staff and time of the City Attorney's
    Office spent in regard to defense of the action or proceeding. The parties shall use best
    efforts to select mutually agreeable defense counsel but, if the parties cannot reach
    agreement, City may select its own legal counsel and Applicant agrees to pay directly or
    timely reimburse on a monthly basis City for all such court costs, attorney fees, and time
    referenced herein. (Planning)

   Attachments:
   1) Vicinity Map
   2) Colored Plan Set 11x17
   3) E-mails from Debbie Tobar/Tonya Wagner/Jack Sales (including applicant's response)
   4) Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Environmental/Sustainable Measures
   5) Traffic Study

   Exhibits:
   A. Resolution w/ Negative Declaration
   B. Ordinance w/Text Amendments
   C. Project Description
   D. Nighttime Simulation and Materials A.50
   E. Site Plan A1.0
   F. Floor Plan A2.0
   G. Elevation Plan A4.0
   H. Landscape Plan L1.0
   I. Lighting Plan LT1.0
   J. Photometric Site Plan LT2.0
   K. Security Plan
2065341.1
                         Project Site




CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS
        Cardroom Relocation
        6510 Antelope Road
            File Numbers
 OTA-12-02, UP-12-03, DRPMOD-12-09
       Attachment 2




Refer to Exhibits D through J
                                                                                                    Attachment 4




March 7, 2013
Attn:     Alison Bermudez
          Associate Planner
          City of Citrus Heights
          6237 Fountain Square Drive
          Citrus Heights, CA 95621

CC:       Masis Kevorkian, Monarch Group
          Ryan Stone, Monarch Group

Project Name:             Stones Casino
Project Address:          6510 Antelope Road, Citrus Heights, CA 95621

Subject:                  Summary of Project Actions for Greenhouse Gas Reduction and
                          Environmental/Sustainable Measures

Dear Mrs. Alison Bermudez:

Please find the below the summary overview of the project's environmental and sustainability measures, including
actions for greenhouse gas reduction, light pollution reduction, and recycled and sustainable materials specified
for the project.

      ·   Parking Lot Area: Minimize parking lot area by providing motorcycle parking.
      ·   Materials and Resources: The buildings floors, solid pre-fabricated "tilt-up" concrete panel walls and
          building roof structure will be reused. A new, more energy-efficient roof system will be installed over the
          existing roof structure. This includes utilizing ecological-sensitive materials for site fencing used at
          designated exterior trash enclosure gates, exterior storage and exterior smoking areas. In place of typical
          wood materials, the site fencing is to be constructed with Resysta, a "fiber reinforced hybrid" product
          called Resysta that very closely looks and feels similar to natural wood and that is defined as an
          "extruded composite consisting of a proprietary blend of approximately 60% rice husks, 22% common
          salt and 18% mineral oil". The advantages are a look and feel of natural wood product with greater
          durability and resistance to wear from use and weather, using wood-free technological innovation. The
          project will also source local materials and resources, where feasible.
      ·   Water Efficiency: Building to be upgraded to more efficient faucets, fixtures and fittings inside and water-
          wise landscaping and automatic irrigation systems outside (Citrus Heights Municipal Code 106.34.050-C).
      ·   Site and Exterior Lighting: To address light pollution reduction and energy efficiency and consumption the
          lighting systems have been designed with energy efficient sources that respect the Night Sky and
          neighboring properties. Lighting levels are designed in accordance with the Illuminating Engineering
          Society's recommendations and all fixtures are shielded or aimed down. Pulse start metal halide (efficacy
          of 96 lumens per watt) light fixtures illuminate the parking lot; ceramic metal halide (efficacy of 100
          lumens per watt) luminaires light the pedestrian paths close to the building. Where metal halide could not
          be used, infrared halogen (higher efficiency halogen technology) is used or luminaires are controlled such
          that they are only on when needed.
      ·   Landscape: The parking lot tree shading calculations have been added to the site plan, indicating enough
          tree coverage to meet the 50% shade requirements in 10 years. Shrubs and trees have been added to
          the landscape plan to bring the planters in compliance with section (Citrus Heights Municipal Code
          106.34.050). Currently the trees proposed to be removed in the parking lots do not provide enough
                     44 McLea Court San Francisco California 94103 415.864.2800 tel 415.864.2850 fax www.ccs-architecture.com

                                                                                                                  Page 1 of 7
        coverage to meet the shade requirements. The trees to be removed are being replaced with bigger trees
        that will now provide more shade and will meet the 50% parking lot shade requirement.
    ·   Energy and Atmosphere: The project will be designed to utilize building controls with energy-use
        monitoring capabilities to ensure efficient design, construction and operations. This includes specifying
        energy-efficient equipment, systems and lighting.
    ·   Indoor Environmental Quality: the project will implement design strategies to provide thermal comfort and
        daylighting issues by maintaining energy-efficient glazing and exterior solar shading at south-facing
        glazed curtain walls. They will be balanced with daylighting and thermal comfort solutions that take
        advantage of passive air quality and temperature control where feasible.

Please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions regarding the responses submitted above. I would be
glad to offer further assistance or clarification as required


Respectfully submitted,

Andre Krause
CCS Architecture
O: 415-864-2800 x308
E: akrause@ccs-architecture.com




                   44 McLea Court San Francisco California 94103 415.864.2800 tel 415.864.2850 fax www.ccs-architecture.com

                                                                                                                Page 2 of 7
                                                                                                              Attachment 5




                             TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

Date:                 January 9, 2013

To:                   Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights

From:                 John Gard, PE, and Marissa Harned, Fehr & Peers

Subject:              Traffic Study for Proposed Casino, Bar, and Grill on Antelope Road

                                                                                                       RS12-3057


This technical memorandum summarizes level of service and queuing analysis we performed for
the proposed Casino, Bar, and Grill to be located at 6510 Antelope Road in Citrus Heights,
California. The proposed project is located on the south side of Antelope Road, directly west of
Interstate 80 (I-80). Based on the current site plan, project consists of a 23,600 square-foot
building that would include a restaurant/bar and gaming floor space. Seating would be provided
for 180 restaurant patrons and 270 cardroom patrons.

Study recommendations may be found on pages 14-15.



EXISTING CONDITIONS

We performed intersection level of service and queuing analysis for the weekday PM peak hour1
at the following study intersections:

          ·   Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway

          ·   Antelope Road/Zenith Drive/Tupelo Drive

Existing intersection turning movement counts were collected from 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM on
Wednesday, November 7, 2012. Weather conditions were good and roads were dry when the
counts were collected. The count sheets are provided in the Attachments. Figure 1 shows the
existing traffic volumes.




      1
          The PM peak hour was selected for evaluation (versus the AM peak hour) because casino/cardrooms are
          known to generate more traffic during this period.

              2990 Lava Ridge Court | Suite 200 | Roseville, CA 95661 | (916) 773-1900 | Fax (916) 773-2015
                                                 www.fehrandpeers.com
         Blackstar Dr




                                                                                            r
                                                                                            en D
                                                                                       Lich
                        Zenith Dr




                                                Antelope Rd
                           !
                           1                                                                !
                                                                                            2




                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                       80
                            Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                     nD
                                                                                                                                               vio
                                                                                                                                             Na
                                                                                                                                            Not to Scale



 1. Antelope Rd/Zenith Dr/Tupelo Dr                    2. Antelope Rd/Lichen Dr                    LEGEND
                        Zenith Dr




                                                                     Lichen Dr




                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                            Turn Lane
                                                                                                    PM      Peak Hour Traffic Volume
               163


                        acce



                                                               298




                                        129                                             515
               75
               37




                                                                        ace
                                                               46




               ad                       1,282
                                        152
                                                               ag                       1,542        !
                                                                                                     1      Study Intersection
                                                                                        131
                        í
                        è
                        é
                        ë
                        ì                                            é
                                                                     è
                                                                     í
                                                                     ì
                                                                     ë                               í
                                                                                                     ì
                                                                                                     è
                                                                                                     é
                                                                                                     ë      Traffic Signal

                                                                                 f
 Antelope Rd                                     Antelope Rd


                                    acf
                                                                  acce




                                                                                                            Project Site
                 acce




            74                                               71
         1,009                                            1,162
                                                                                 101
                                57
                                49
                               110




            34                                               14
                        Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                              PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                                               AND LANE CONFIGURATIONS -
                                                                                                                     EXISTING CONDITIONS
N:\2012Projects\3057_Patriots Casino\Graphics\Draft\GIS\MXD\fig01_phtv_ex.mxd
                                                                                                                                              FIGURE 1
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 3 of 16

INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS

Intersection level of service analysis was performed using the SimTraffic micro-simulation
software, which utilizes the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology.                             SimTraffic is a
valuable tool when analyzing congested or closely spaced intersections because it considers the
effects of queue spillbacks on adjacent intersections, coordinated signal timing, lane changing,
and other travel behaviors on corridor operations.

The two study intersections are spaced approximately 580 feet apart and feature coordinated
traffic signal timings. Field observations revealed that consistent eastbound-westbound
bandwidths of green time were not always provided for the Antelope Road approaches. Signal
timings plans and field observations revealed cycle lengths of approximately 2 minutes at each
intersection. The westbound approach of the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive intersection includes
one left-turn lane, one through lane, and one shared through/right-turn lane; however, the shared
through/right-turn lane and adjacent Class II bike lane are approximately 26 feet wide. Some
motorists were observed using the extra width to make right turns and very occasionally travel
through the intersection to the third receiving lane west of the intersection. A short (less than 100
foot) right-turn lane was entered into the SimTraffic model to reflect this behavior.

The delay and level of service shown in Table 1 are the results of an average of 10 simulation runs.
Signal timings provided by the City of Citrus Heights were entered into the model. As shown in
Table 1, both study intersections currently operate at LOS C. The technical calculations are
provided in the Attachments.



                                                   TABLE 1
                                      EXISTING LEVEL OF SERVICE RESULTS


                                                                                     Existing Conditions
            Intersection                         Movement
                                                                          Delay (sec./veh.)               LOS1

 Antelope Rd/Zenith Dr/ Tupelo Rd            Overall Intersection                  26                       C
                                             Overall Intersection                  26                       C
 Antelope Rd/Lichen Dr/ Project
                                                WB Left-Turn                       61                       E
 Driveway
                                                NB Right-Turn                      11                       B
        1
 Notes: 11-20 seconds of delay is LOS B; 21-35 seconds of delay is LOS C; 36-55 seconds of delay is LOS D; 56-80 seconds
        of delay is LOS E.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 4 of 16

QUEUING ANALYSIS

Table 2 shows the maximum observed vehicle queues for critical movements at the Antelope
Road/Lichen Drive intersection. These observations were recorded when the traffic volume data
was collected.

The following vehicular queuing characteristics were observed at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive
intersection:

    ·         The westbound left-turn lane had a maximum queue of 7 vehicles, which occupied the
              the majority of the 200-foot turn lane.
    ·         Westbound through traffic extended beyond the I-80 WB Ramps/Antelope Road
              intersection, blocking access to the left-turn lane.
    ·         Westbound queued vehicles on Antelope Road at Tupelo Drive occasionally spilled back
              into the Lichen Drive intersection.
    ·         A greater proportion of eastbound Antelope Road traffic at Lichen Drive used the inside
              or middle through lanes, versus the through/right lane (which becomes a `trap' lane onto
              WB I-80 about 350 feet beyond the intersection).


                                              TABLE 2
                   ANTELOPE RD/LICHEN DR/PROJECT DRIVEWAY EXISTING QUEUE LENGTHS


                                                          Maximum Observed Queue
          Movement              Storage Length (ft.)1                         2               95th Percentile Queue 3
                                                               vehicles (ft.)
 Westbound Left-Turn                     200 ft.                     7 (175 ft.)                        210 ft.4
 Westbound Through                       600 ft.                    24 (600 ft.)                       600 ft.5
 Northbound Right-Turn                   150 ft.                     5 (125 ft.)                         80 ft.
 Eastbound Through                       450 ft.                    15 (375 ft.)                        340 ft.
          1
 Notes:     Storage lengths for through movements were measured to the nearest upstream intersection.
          2
            Number of vehicles was observed on Wednesday, November 7, 2012. Queue length calculated based on an
          average vehicle length of 25 ft. per vehicle.
          3    th
            95 percentile queue based on results from SimTraffic model.
          4
            Visual observations of the westbound left-turn queue shows that it does not extend beyond the 200 ft. storage
          pocket. The queue length results reflect left-turning vehicles that are blocked by westbound through traffic
          upstream of the left-turn pocket.
          5
            The westbound through queue extends beyond the upstream intersection.
        Bold indicates queues that extend beyond the existing storage.
                                              th
        All storage lengths and maximum or 95 percentile queues are "per lane'.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 5 of 16
Table 2 also displays the 95th percentile queue length for each movement, as reported by
SimTraffic. The queuing analysis was used to calibrate the SimTraffic model to existing conditions
observed in the field. As shown in Table 2, the westbound left-turn queue was observed reaching
175 feet, which nearly fills the existing storage pocket length leaving room for approximately one
more vehicle. The 95th percentile queue recorded in the SimTraffic analysis is 210 feet. Visual
observation of the SimTraffic simulation shows that the westbound left-turn queue does not
extend out of the existing pocket; however, because of the length of the westbound through
movement queue, some left-turning vehicles are blocked by through traffic upstream of the left-
turn pocket. These vehicles are reflected in the SimTraffic results, which show a queue length
greater than the 200 foot storage pocket. In actuality, the left-turn queue in the SimTraffic
analysis matches what was observed in the field and does not extend beyond the existing pocket
length. Exhibit 1 shows an example of the existing queuing at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive
intersection.

                Exhibit 1: SimTraffic Simulation Screen Shot ­ Existing Conditions




The eastbound through movement and northbound right-turn movement queues recorded in
SimTraffic are within approximately 1-2 vehicles of the observed queues lengths recorded in the
field. The westbound through movement queue was observed extending beyond the upstream
intersection, which is also shown in the SimTraffic results. Therefore, the SimTraffic model has
been accurately calibrated to match existing conditions.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 6 of 16

PROJECT TRAVEL CHARACTERISTICS

TRIP GENERATION RATES

Trip generation rates published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers' (ITE) Trip Generation
Manual, 9th Edition (2012) are typically used to estimate the trip generation of a proposed land
development. While Trip Generation has a Casino/Video Lottery Establishment land use category,
the PM peak hour trip generation rate is based on six studies of facilities that average only 2,000
square feet (significantly smaller than the proposed project).                     Furthermore, the land use
description of this category specifies that food service was generally not provided within the
surveyed sites. Therefore, we conducted trip generation surveys at the following casinos, which
are generally similar in location, size, and operation to that of the proposed project:

    ·         Casino Royale ­ located at 2052 Auburn Boulevard in Sacramento, CA

    ·         Cordova Casino ­ located at 2801 Prospect Park Drive in Rancho Cordova, CA

The location, size, on-site amenities, and parking associated with these casinos are described
below, followed by their measured trip generation characteristics.

Comparable Casino Characteristics

Table 3 summarizes the location, size, and operating characteristics of the two comparable sites.


                                                    TABLE 3
                                     DESCRIPTION OF COMPARABLE FACILITIES

                                                                                  Gaming  Year Restaurant/
 Project              Location          Square Footage         Parking 1
                                                                                  Tables Opened Bar (Y/N?)
 Casino          Adjacent to Capital     Approx. 7,400   100 off-street spaces
       a                                                                            11     2008             Yes
 Royale             City Freeway          square feet1   plus on-street parking
 Cordova                                 20,000 square
                 Adjacent to US 50                       147 off-street spaces      9      2010             Yes
 Casinob                                      feet
          1
 Notes:       Estimated based on based aerial imagery.
          a
 Source: http://playcasinoroyale.com/; http://california.casinocity.com/sacramento/casino-royale/;
        http://www.sfgate.com/thingstodo/article/Sacramento-s-Casino-Royale-built-for-comfort-3180435.php
        b
          http://www.bizjournals.com/sacramento/stories/2010/03/01/daily63.html; and project site plan.


As shown in Table 3, Casino Royale devotes a greater proportion of its overall facility space to
gaming operations when compared to the Cordova Casino.                       Data regarding the size of the
restaurant/bar space and back-of-house operations was not available.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 7 of 16
Comparable Casino Trip Generation Survey Results

We conducted counts at each facility during the PM peak period (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM) on
Tuesday, October 30 and Thursday, November 1, 2012 (the count data is provided in the
Attachments). Table 4 summarizes the results. At each facility, conditions were slightly busier (6
to 8 percent) during the Thursday count period versus the Tuesday count period. Despite having
less square footage, Casino Royale generated more PM peak hour trips than Cordova Casino.



                                                  TABLE 4
                            COMPARABLE FACILITY TRIP GENERATION SURVEY RESULTS

                                                                                     1
                                                            Weekday PM Peak Hour
 Project          Tuesday, October 30, 2012            Thursday, November 1, 2012                        Average
                     In         Out         Total            In      Out       Total           In          Out        Total
 Casino
                    52           34           86             40      51         91            46           43             89
 Royale2
 Cordova
        3           26           23           49             27      26         53            27           24             51
 Casino
          1
 Notes:     PM peak hour occurs each day from 4:45 to 5:45 PM at Casino Royale. PM peak hour occurs each day from 4:15
          to 5:15 PM at Cordova Casino.
          2
            Includes vehicle trips using project driveway and on-street parking.
          3
            Includes vehicle trips using the two project driveways.
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2013


Table 5 expresses the trip generation results from Table 4 in terms of trip generation rates. Trip
generation rates for each comparable facility were calculated on a "per thousand square feet (ksf)"
and "per gaming table" basis. Data regarding the number of employees, restaurant/bar seats, and
other potential explanatory variables were not available.



                                                   TABLE 5
                                  COMPARABLE FACILITY TRIP GENERATION RATES


                                        Quantity                                             Trip Generation Rates
                                                              Average PM
     Project                                                                                                  Trips per
                                ksf1          Gaming Tables Peak Hour Trips              Trips per ksf
                                                                                                            Gaming Table
 Casino Royale                   7.4                   11                 89                12.03                  8.09
 Cordova Casino                  20                    9                  51                 2.55                  5.67
 Average                        13.7                   10                 70                 5.11                  7.00
          1
 Notes:       ksf = 1,000 square feet of floor space
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2013
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 8 of 16
As shown in Table 5, the deviation in trip rates between the two sites is less when the rates are
expressed on a "per gaming table" basis versus a "per ksf" basis. When the average rate of 7.00
PM peak hour trips per gaming table is used, trips generated by Casino Royale are
underestimated by 13% (77 vs. 89), while trips generated by Cordova Casino are overestimated by
24% (63 vs. 51). Use of the average rate of 5.11 trips per ksf yields far less accurate results.

Based on the results in Table 5, the following trip generation rates were used for the proposed
project:

    ·      Weekday PM Peak Hour = 7 trips per gaming table

           o   53% are inbound / 47% are outbound based on comparable facility counts


PROJECT TRIP GENERATION

Table 6 shows the PM peak hour trip generation estimates for the proposed Casino, Bar, and Grill.
As shown, the proposed project would generate 210 trips during the PM peak hour. The average
trip generation rates developed from the data at Casino Royale and Cordova Casino included not
only gaming table patrons, but also employees, deliveries, and bar/restaurant patrons (to the
extent they arrived/departed during the PM peak hour).           Therefore, it was not necessary to
account for these users separately within Table 6,


                                              TABLE 6
                                      PROJECT TRIP GENERATION

                                                                           Trips
        Land Use              Size       Units
                                                           In               Out             Total
 Casino, Bar, and Grill       30     Gaming Tables         111               99              210
 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2013


PROJECT TRIP DISTRIBUTION

Project generated trips were distributed to the surrounding roadway network based on existing
travel patterns within the area and the population distribution within a 10 mile radius of the
project site. A map of the population distribution is provided in the Attachments. Although the
exact catchment area of the project is not known, the use of a 10-mile radius provides important
information regarding the potential market within a 10 to 20 minute drive.

Project trips were distributed to the adjacent roadway network based on the following
distribution pattern:
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 9 of 16
      ·    80% travel to/from east on Antelope Road (toward I-80)

      ·    15% travel to/from west on Antelope Road

      ·    2% travel to/from south on Tupelo Drive

      ·    2% travel to/from north on Zenith Drive

      ·    1% travel to/from north on Lichen Drive

Figure 2 shows the project only trips at the study intersections. Since the northbound movement
at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection is restricted to right-turns only,
project trips traveling westbound from the project site would need to use the Tupelo Drive/East-
West Drive Aisle intersection (shown as intersection #3 on Figure 2).         Project trips at this
intersection are shown on Figure 2 for reference purposes only.

As shown on Figure 2, the proposed project would add 89 westbound left-turns during the PM
peak hour to the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. This would result in
this movement increasing from 131 vehicles (today) to 220 vehicles with the project.



SIGNIFICANCE CRITERIA

On August 11, 2011, the City of Citrus Heights adopted its General Plan Update. Policy 29.2
of the General Plan specifies the following:

  ·       The City will strive to achieve LOS E or better conditions for roadways and intersections
          during peak hours (these may include weekday AM, midday, and PM, as well as
          Saturday midday or PM). The intent of this policy is to effectively utilize the roadway
          network capacity while balancing the desire to minimize potential adverse effects of
          vehicle travel on the environment and other modes. Exceptions to the LOS E policy are
          allowed for roadway segments and intersections along five arterials in the City
          including Antelope Road east of I-80. On these five arterials, no roadway widening to
          provide additional vehicle capacity will be permitted. Development projects that cause
          an impact at these locations may also require mitigation (including, but not limited to)
          the following:
               o   Actions that reduce vehicle trips or provide non-auto improvements to the
                   transportation network or service.
               o   Lengthening of turn pockets.
               o   Signal timing modifications.
         Blackstar Dr




                                                                                            r
                                                                                            en D
                                                                                       Lich
                        Zenith Dr




                           1
                                              Antelope Rd                                   2
                                                                                            !
                           !


                               3                                                                                                                                   80
                               !                                                                                                                                  $
                                                                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                  #
                            Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                    nD
                                                                                                                                                                              vio
                                                                                                                                                                            Na
                                                                                                                                                                          Not to Scale



 1. Antelope Rd/Zenith Dr/Tupelo Dr                  2. Antelope Rd/Lichen Dr                      3. E-W Drive Aisle/Tupelo Dr                      LEGEND
                        Zenith Dr




                                                                      Lichen Dr




                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                           Turn Lane
                                                                                                                                                      PM   Peak Hour Traffic Volume
                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                       !




                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                      !
                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                           Study Intersection
                    2




                                                                                                               af




                    a                                             c                                                           18
                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                      í
                                                                                                                                                      ì
                                                                                                                                                      ë
                                                                                                                                                      é
                                                                                                                                                      è
                                                                      a




                                                                                       89                                                                  Traffic Signal
                        é
                        è
                        í
                        ì
                        ë                                             è
                                                                      ì
                                                                      í
                                                                      ë
                                                                      é
                                                                                  f
 Antelope Rd                                   Antelope Rd                                                                         E-W Drive Aisle


                                    acf                                                                            f                                  "
                                                                                                                                                      $
                                                                                                                                                      !    Stop Sign
                    c




               17                                             1
                                                                  af




                                                             19
                                                                                  79
                                15
                                 2
                                 1




                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                                                                                           Project Site
                        Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                                 Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                                             PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                                                              AND LANE CONFIGURATIONS -
                                                                                                                               PROJECT GENERATED TRIPS
N:\2012Projects\3057_Patriots Casino\Graphics\Draft\GIS\MXD\fig02_phtv_pt.mxd
                                                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 2
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 11 of 16
In accordance with Policy 29.2, the proposed project would have a significant impact on the
roadway system if it would:

    ·       Worsen peak hour operations at an intersection maintained by the City of Citrus
            Heights from LOS E or better to LOS F. 

It is worth noting that the City may also place conditions of approval on proposed projects to
make certain frontage or on-site improvements if warranted. Typical improvements to the
transportation system may include: lengthening of turn pockets, modified traffic signal
timings, driveway reconfigurations, bicycle/pedestrian/transit system enhancements, and on-
site circulation improvements. A study, such as this one, is often prepared to demonstrate the
nexus between project implementation and the need for the specified improvements.


EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS

Project generated trips were added to existing traffic volumes to yield the existing plus project
conditions scenario.       The existing plus project traffic volumes are shown in Figure 3.                        No
operational changes, such as signal timing adjustments, were assumed for this scenario. Table 7
shows the level of service results (the technical calculations are provided in the Attachments).

As shown in Table 7, the project would cause modest increases in delays at the Antelope
Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. However, operations would remain at LOS C.



                                               TABLE 7
                            EXISTING PLUS PROJECT LEVEL OF SERVICE RESULTS


                                                                                            Existing Plus Project
                                                               Existing Conditions
                                                                                                 Conditions
        Intersection                   Movement
                                                                Delay                         Delay
                                                                               LOS1                          LOS
                                                             (sec./veh.)                   (sec./veh.)

 Antelope Rd/Zenith Dr/
                                   Overall Intersection           26             C              27             C
 Tupelo Rd
                                   Overall Intersection           26             C              28             C
 Antelope Rd/Lichen Dr/
                                      WB Left-Turn                61             E              67             E
 Project Driveway
                                      NB Right-Turn               11             B              15             B
        1
 Notes: 11-20 seconds of delay is LOS B; 21-35 seconds of delay is LOS C; 36-55 seconds of delay is LOS D; 56-80
        seconds of delay is LOS E.
         Blackstar Dr




                                                                                            r
                                                                                            en D
                                                                                       Lich
                        Zenith Dr




                           1
                                                Antelope Rd                                 2
                                                                                            !
                           !


                                                                                                                                       80
                                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                                                       #
                            Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                     nD
                                                                                                                                               vio
                                                                                                                                             Na
                                                                                                                                            Not to Scale



 1. Antelope Rd/Zenith Dr/Tupelo Dr                    2. Antelope Rd/Lichen Dr                    LEGEND
                        Zenith Dr




                                                                     Lichen Dr




                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                            Turn Lane
                                                                                                    PM      Peak Hour Traffic Volume
                                                               298
               165


                        acce




                                        129                                            515
                                                               46




                                                                     ace




                                                                                                     1
               75
               37




                                                                                                     !
                                                               1




               ad                       1,282                  ad                      1,542                Study Intersection
                                        152                                            220
                        í
                        è
                        é
                        ë
                        ì                                            è
                                                                     é
                                                                     í
                                                                     ì
                                                                     ë                               ì
                                                                                                     í
                                                                                                     è
                                                                                                     é
                                                                                                     ë      Traffic Signal

                                                                                 f
 Antelope Rd                                     Antelope Rd


                                    acf
                  acce




                                                                  acce




             74                                              72                                             Project Site
          1,026                                           1,162
                                                                                 180
                                     72
                                     51
                                    111




             34                                              33
                        Tupelo Dr




                                                                                                           PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                                            AND LANE CONFIGURATIONS -
                                                                                                    EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS
N:\2012Projects\3057_Patriots Casino\Graphics\Draft\GIS\MXD\fig03_phtv_epp.mxd
                                                                                                                                              FIGURE 3
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 13 of 16

QUEUING ANALYSIS

Table 8 shows the existing plus project conditions queue lengths for the critical movements at the
Antelope Road/Lichen Drive-Project Driveway intersection.

The results in Table 8 reveal the following key conclusions:

 ·   Development of the project would cause traffic to spill out of the westbound left-turn lane (see
     Exhibit 2 for SimTraffic screenshot). The maximum  green  time  for  the  westbound  leftturn 
     movement  is  18.5  seconds,  which  is  not  sufficient  to  accommodate  existing  traffic  plus 
     projectgenerated trips.   Observations of the simulation show frequent queues  that  do not 
     fully dissipate (i.e. vehicles at the end of the queue do not make it through the intersection 
     and  have  to  sit  through  an  additional  signal  cycle  before  clearing  the  intersection).  
     Recommendations to address this situation are provided in the following section.  
      
 ·   Development of the project would cause increased queuing on the project driveway approach
     to Antelope Road. Traffic would queue nearly back to the first internal intersection, but would
     not adversely affect that intersection or public street operations.


                                                TABLE 8
              ANTELOPE RD/LICHEN DR-PROJECT DRIVEWAY EXISTING PLUS PROJECT QUEUE LENGTHS

                                                                                    th                2
                                                                                  95 Percentile Queue
          Movement                Storage Length 1
                                                            Existing Conditions           Existing Plus Project Conditions
                                                                              3
 Westbound Left-Turn                    200 ft.                     210 ft.                            260 ft. 3
 Westbound Through                      600 ft.                     600 ft.4                           600 ft. 4
 Northbound Right-Turn                  150 ft.                      80 ft.                             135 ft.
 Eastbound Through                      450 ft.                     340 ft.                             370 ft.
          1
 Notes:     Storage lengths for through movements were measured to the nearest upstream intersection.
          2   th
            95 percentile queues based on results from SimTraffic model.
          3
            The westbound left-turn lane is blocked by through queues under existing conditions. Under Existing Plus Project
          conditions, vehicles spill out of the left-turn lane.
          4
              The westbound through queue extends beyond the upstream intersection.
     Bold indicates queues that extend beyond the existing storage.
                                   th
     All storage lengths and 95 percentile queues are "per lane'.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 14 of 16
        Exhibit 2: SimTraffic Simulation Screen Shot ­ Existing Plus Project Conditions




RECOMMENDATIONS

Since  the  project  would  not  cause  a  significant  impact  at  either  study  intersection,  it  is  consistent 
with  Policy  29.2  of  the  General  Plan.    However,  the following recommendations are offered to
address the expected vehicular queuing problem caused by the project in the westbound left-turn
lane at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection (see Figure 4):

    ·    Increase the westbound left-turn pocket length at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project
         Driveway intersection from 200 feet to 300 feet.
    ·    Increase the maximum green time for the westbound left-turn movement at the Antelope
         Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection from 18.5 seconds to 24.5 seconds.

The effects of these changes were modeled using SimTraffic. These modifications would reduce
average delays in the westbound left-turn lane, provide adequate green time to enable all queued
vehicles to clear the intersection during the green phase, and supply sufficient storage for the 95th
percentile queue length (i.e., traffic would not spill into the adjacent through lane). Furthermore,
these improvements would not adversely affect other intersection turning movements. Lastly,
lengthening the left-turn pocket can be accommodated within the existing 14-foot wide median
on Antelope Road and would not encroach into Caltrans Access Control.
Alison Bermudez & Kevin Becker, City of Citrus Heights
January 9, 2013
Page 15 of 16
The following recommendations (see Figure 4) relating to internal circulation are offered:

    ·   Post a "mandatory (right-turn) movement" sign (R3-5R) on the far side signal mast arm of
        the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection for the northbound
        movement. Currently, there is just one sign within the project site that is difficult to see.

    ·   Provide enhanced intersection striping and signage for the internal site intersection south of
        the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. Potential enhancements
        may include:

        o   Delineation of dedicated left and through/right lanes on the southbound approach.

        o   STOP bars / signs on the northbound, eastbound, and westbound approaches.

        o   Signs at the eastbound and westbound approaches indicating that "Traffic from Left
            (Right) Does Not Stop" [W4-4aP (Left) and W4-4aP (Right)].
                                                           Post mandatory (right-turn) movement
                                                           sign (R3-5R) on far side signal mast arm.




                                             Lichen Dr
                                                                                               Westbound Left Turn Lane:
                                                                                               Increase maximum green time
                                                                                               from 18.5 to 24.5 seconds.




         Antelope Rd




                                                                                                                                Increase left-turn lane length
                                                                                                                                from 200 to 300 feet.




                                                                    bf
                                                                                  *
                                                                                          d
                                                                                      S TO P
                                              d
                                                         STOP




                                                                         S TO P

                                                                *
                                                                           d
                         Add enhanced intersection
                         striping and signage.




  LEGEND
           Existing Accessible                                                                                        Project
           Path from Public                                                                                            Site
           Street Sidewalk

  Note:
    Consider adding signs
  *
  W4-4aP (Left) and                        Not to Scale
  W4-4aP (Right), "TRAFFIC
  FROM LEFT (RIGHT)
  DOES NOT STOP."




                                                                                                                                RECOMMENDATIONS
Path: N:\2012Projects\3057_Patriots Casino\Graphics\Draft\GIS\MXD\fig04_recommendations.mxd
                                                                                                                                                         FIGURE 4
                                                                                         All Traffic Data
                                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
City of Citrus Heights                                                                                                                                       File Name     : 12-7487-002 Tupelo-Antelope
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date    : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                                                             Page No       :1


                                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           Zenith Drive                              Antelope Road                           Tupelo Drive                                      Antelope Road
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                              Northbound                                          Eastbound
Start Time Left          Thr    Rig Ped        App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds        App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         16:00     28      6      22      0          56      47     325      31       1       403       13         8        29     3          50      18      252     4    0        274               4          783           787
         16:15     48     13      21      1          82      31     321      28       0       380       11        16        37     1          64      16      262    14    1        292               3          818           821
         16:30     47     10      15      7          72      34     323      32       8       389       21        15        19     0          55      18      262     9    1        289              16          805           821
         16:45     40      8      17      1          65      40     313      38       3       391       12        10        25     4          47      22      233     7    0        262               8          765           773
          Total   163     37      75      9         275     152    1282     129      12      1563       57        49       110     8         216      74     1009    34    2       1117              31         3171          3202

         17:00     32      8      17      0          57      20     274      32       0       326       12        11        37     0          60      19      230     9    0        258               0          701           701
         17:15     34     15      12      2          61      30     333      35       7       398       16        13        36     2          65      21      234     5    1        260              12          784           796
         17:30     33     14      16      0          63      26     365      34       6       425       14        13        29     0          56      17      231     9    0        257               6          801           807
         17:45     35     11      16      0          62      29     319      42       0       390       19         5        40     4          64      15      243     8    3        266               7          782           789
          Total   134     48      61      2         243     105    1291     143      13      1539       61        42       142     6         245      72      938    31    4       1041              25         3068          3093

    Grand Total    297     85    136      11        518     257    2573     272      25      3102      118         91      252    14         461     146     1947    65    6       2158              56         6239          6295
     Apprch %     57.3   16.4   26.3                        8.3    82.9     8.8                       25.6       19.7     54.7                       6.8     90.2     3
       Total %     4.8    1.4    2.2                 8.3    4.1    41.2     4.4              49.7      1.9        1.5        4                7.4    2.3     31.2     1             34.6           0.9           99.1




                                   Zenith Drive                               Antelope Road                                      Tupelo Drive                              Antelope Road
                                   Southbound                                  Westbound                                         Northbound                                  Eastbound
        Start Time        Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left      Thru    Right        App. Total          Left     Thru    Right       App. Total     Left    Thru    Right         App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
             16:00         28         6         22        56           47          325       31          403              13        8          29            50       18     252           4                274                783
             16:15         48        13         21        82           31          321       28          380              11       16          37            64       16     262          14                292                818
             16:30         47        10         15        72           34          323       32          389              21       15          19            55       18     262           9                289                805
             16:45         40         8         17        65           40          313       38          391              12       10          25            47       22     233           7                262                765
     Total Volume         163        37         75       275          152         1282      129         1563              57       49         110           216       74    1009          34               1117               3171
     % App. Total        59.3      13.5       27.3                    9.7           82      8.3                         26.4     22.7        50.9                    6.6    90.3           3
               PHF       .849      .712       .852      .838         .809         .986     .849          .970           .679     .766        .743           .844    .841    .963        .607                .956               .969
                                                              All Traffic Data
                                                                   (916) 771-8700
City of Citrus Heights                                                                                     File Name                  : 12-7487-002 Tupelo-Antelope
                                                                                                           Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                           Start Date                 : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                           Page No                    :2

                                                                         Zenith Drive
                                                                  Out        In       Total
                                                                   252        275       527


                                                                      75    37  163
                                                                   Right Thru Left




                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                         2531
                                         Total




                                                                                                            1282
                                                                                                            Out
                                                   74




                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                 Left




                                                                                                129 1282




                                                                                                                Antelope Road
                                                                             North
                           Antelope Road

                                 1117


                                                    34 1009
                                                 Right Thru
                                  In




                                                                                                                     1563
                                                                                                                      In
                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 16:00

                                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                              Left
                         1414




                                                                                               152
                         Out




                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                              2845
                                                                    Left Thru Right
                                                                       57   49   110


                                                                   223        216       439
                                                                  Out       In        Total
                                                                         Tupelo Drive
                                                                                          All Traffic Data
                                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
City of Citrus Heights                                                                                                                                       File Name     : 12-7487-001 Lichen-Antelope
                                                                                                                                                             Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                             Start Date    : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                                                                             Page No       :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           Lichen Drive                              Antelope Road                               Lichen Drive                                  Antelope Road
                           Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
Start Time Left          Thr   Rig Ped         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds            App. Total Left Thru Right Peds           App. Total   Left    Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         16:00     76      0      14      1          90      40     399      88           0      527        0       0       28     0          28      11      307     3    1         321               2          966           968
         16:15     78      0      16      4          94      27     376     119           0      522        0       0       17     0          17      11      319     4    6         334              10          967           977
         16:30     54      0      19      0          73      23     390      92           0      505        0       0       39     3          39       8      338     2    0         348               3          965           968
         16:45     77      0      15      0          92      28     401      94           0      523        0       0       30     2          30      16      291     1    1         308               3          953           956
          Total   285      0      64      5         349     118    1566     393           0     2077        0       0      114     5         114      46     1255    10    8        1311              18         3851          3869

         17:00     67      0       8       0         75      26     331     109           0      466        0       0       30     1          30      18      286     2     4        306               5          877           882
         17:15     81      0      11       4         92      30     409     133           0      572        0       0       16     1          16      22      295     2     1        319               6          999          1005
         17:30     79      0      16       2         95      39     416     133           0      588        0       0       28     0          28      14      279     4     5        297               7         1008          1015
         17:45     71      0      11       4         82      36     386     140           0      562        0       0       27     3          27      17      302     6    12        325              19          996          1015
          Total   298      0      46      10        344     131    1542     515           0     2188        0       0      101     5         101      71     1162    14    22       1247              37         3880          3917

    Grand Total    583     0     110      15        693     249    3108      908          0     4265        0       0      215    10         215     117     2417    24    30       2558              55         7731          7786
     Apprch %     84.1     0    15.9                        5.8    72.9     21.3                            0       0      100                       4.6     94.5   0.9
       Total %     7.5     0     1.4                   9    3.2    40.2     11.7                55.2        0       0      2.8                2.8    1.5     31.3   0.3              33.1           0.7           99.3




                                   Lichen Drive                                Antelope Road                                     Lichen Drive                              Antelope Road
                                   Southbound                                   Westbound                                        Northbound                                  Eastbound
        Start Time        Left     Thru      Right App. Total        Left       Thru    Right          App. Total       Left     Thru    Right       App. Total     Left    Thru    Right          App. Total              Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
             17:00         67         0          8        75           26           331        109          466            0        0          30            30       18     286            2                306                877
             17:15         81         0         11        92           30           409        133          572            0        0          16            16       22     295            2                319                999
             17:30         79         0         16        95           39           416        133          588            0        0          28            28       14     279            4                297               1008
             17:45         71         0         11        82           36           386        140          562            0        0          27            27       17     302            6                325                996
     Total Volume         298         0         46       344          131          1542        515         2188            0        0         101           101       71    1162           14               1247               3880
     % App. Total        86.6         0       13.4                      6          70.5       23.5                         0        0         100                    5.7    93.2          1.1
               PHF       .920      .000       .719      .905         .840          .927       .920          .930        .000     .000        .842           .842    .807    .962         .583                .959               .962
                                                              All Traffic Data
                                                                   (916) 771-8700
City of Citrus Heights                                                                                       File Name                  : 12-7487-001 Lichen-Antelope
                                                                                                             Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date                 : 11/7/2012
                                                                                                             Page No                    :2

                                                                           Lichen Drive
                                                                  Out          In       Total
                                                                   586          344       930


                                                                      46     0  298
                                                                   Right Thru Left




                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                         2835
                                         Total




                                                                                                              1561
                                                                                                              Out
                                                   71




                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                 Left




                                                                                                  515 1542




                                                                                                                  Antelope Road
                                                                               North
                           Antelope Road

                                 1247


                                                    14 1162
                                                 Right Thru
                                  In




                                                                                                                       2188
                                                                                                                        In
                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 17:00

                                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                Left
                         1588




                                                                                                 131
                         Out




                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                3749
                                                                    Left       Thru Right
                                                                           0       0   101


                                                                   145          101       246
                                                                  Out          In       Total
                                                                           Lichen Drive
                            12-7487 Citrus Heights
                            Total Number of Vehicles Queued

               4:00 to 4:30 PM 4:30 to 5:00 PM 5:00 to 5:30 PM 5:30 to 6:00 PM
A (WB Left)          7               6                7               7
B (NB Right)         4               5                5               5
C (WB Thru)          26              20              24              32
D (EB Thru)          22              15              10               9
                                                                               Trip Generation Count Data


                    Casino Royale
                    2052 Auburn Blvd

                    Casino Driveway    OnStreet Parking   Combined Total
 Tuesday Data
                     IN        OUT      IN        OUT      IN      OUT     Total     Pk Hr.
10/30/2012 16:00      7         10       1          4       8       14       22
10/30/2012 16:15     11          6       3          3      14        9       23
10/30/2012 16:30      5          5       0          0       5        5       10
10/30/2012 16:45      8         12       1          1       9       13       22       77
10/30/2012 17:00     15         10       1          0      16       10       26       81
10/30/2012 17:15      6          9       0          0       6        9       15       73
10/30/2012 17:30     18          2       3          0      21        2       23       86
10/30/2012 17:45      7          5       4          3      11        8       19       83
           Total:    77         59      13         11      90       70      160
                                                                                   Pk Hr:     4:45  5:45
                                                                                   IN = 52    Out=34
                    Casino Driveway    OnStreet Parking   Combined Total
 Thursday Data
                     IN        OUT      IN        OUT      IN      OUT     Total     Pk Hr.
 11/1/2012 16:00     8         10        3          1      11       11       22
 11/1/2012 16:15     9         7         0          0       9        7      16
 11/1/2012 16:30     5         6         3          1       8        7      15
 11/1/2012 16:45     11        9         1          2      12       11       23       76
 11/1/2012 17:00     6         9         1          2       7       11      18        72
 11/1/2012 17:15     10        14        0          3      10       17       27       83
 11/1/2012 17:30     7         11        4          1      11       12       23       91
 11/1/2012 17:45     6         9         2          1       8       10      18        86
           Total:    62        75       14         11      76       86      162
                                                                                   Pk Hr:     4:45  5:45
                                                                                   IN = 40    Out=51
                                                                                Trip Generation Count Data


                             Cordova Casino
                            2801 Prospect Park Drive

                   Southern Driveway    Northern Driveway 
                                                             Combined Total
 Tuesday Data             (#1)                 (#2)
                     IN        OUT        IN        OUT       IN       OUT    Total    Pk Hr.
10/30/2012 16:00      1          0         0          1        1         1      2
10/30/2012 16:15      5          5         2          3        7         8     15
10/30/2012 16:30      3          3         2          3        5         6     11
10/30/2012 16:45      3          3         1          2        4         5      9        37
10/30/2012 17:00      9          3         1          1       10         4     14        49
10/30/2012 17:15      2          1         1          1        3         2      5        39
10/30/2012 17:30      2          2         3          4        5         6     11        39
10/30/2012 17:45      3          2         2          2        5         4      9        39
          Total:     28         19        12         17       40        36     76
                                                                                      Pk Hr:    4:15  5:15
                                                                                      In=26     Out = 23
                   Southern Driveway    Northern Driveway 
                                                             Combined Total
 Thursday Data            (#1)                 (#2)
                     IN        OUT        IN        OUT       IN       OUT    Total    Pk Hr.
 11/1/2012 16:00      2         2          4          5        6         7     13
 11/1/2012 16:15      4         5          6          2       10        7      17
 11/1/2012 16:30      2         8          3          2        5        10     15
 11/1/2012 16:45      3         1          0          3        3         4      7        52
 11/1/2012 17:00      7         2          2          3        9         5     14        53
 11/1/2012 17:15      2         3          1          3        3         6      9        45
 11/1/2012 17:30      4         3          1          3        5         6     11        41
 11/1/2012 17:45      1         3          0          0        1         3      4        38
          Total:     25        27         17         21       42        48     90
                                                                                      Pk Hr:    4:15  5:15
                                                                                      In = 27   Out = 26
 SimTraffic Post-Processor                                     Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                                   Existing Conditions
 Volume and Delay by Movement                                                         PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1              Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                      Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                   Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served     Average     Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn       59           53        90.2%         37.6         4.2          D
                Through         51           51        100.0%        34.1         3.1          C
     NB
                Right Turn      113          112        99.1%        10.4         0.4          B
                Subtotal        223          216        97.0%        22.7         1.2          C
                Left Turn       168          159        94.7%        34.4         2.6          C
                Through         38           37        97.9%         39.1         6.2          D
     SB
                Right Turn       77           79       102.1%        26.7         4.3          C
                Subtotal        283          275        97.1%        32.8         3.3          C
                Left Turn       76           68        89.5%         44.5         4.2          D
                Through        1040         1004        96.6%        25.4         2.4          C
     EB
                Right Turn       35           36       102.9%        15.6         2.8          B
                Subtotal       1151         1108        96.3%        26.3         2.4          C
                Left Turn       157          153        97.2%        42.0         3.9          D
                Through        1322         1266        95.8%        22.3         1.7          C
     WB
                Right Turn      133          129        97.1%        21.8         1.2          C
                Subtotal       1612         1548        96.0%        24.2         1.5          C
               Total           3269         3147        96.3%        25.6         1.6          C

 Intersection 2              Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                   Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                  Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served     Average    Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn
                Through
     NB
                Right Turn      105          96        91.3%           11.2      1.0          B
                Subtotal        105         96         91.3%           11.2      1.0          B
                Left Turn       310         300        96.9%           43.0      3.8          D
                Through
     SB
                Right Turn        48          51      106.9%           38.1      5.3          D
                Subtotal         358         352       98.2%           42.2      3.6          D
                Left Turn        74          77       104.2%           56.7      6.6          E
                Through         1210        1186       98.0%           15.3      1.2          B
     EB
                Right Turn        15          13       88.0%           11.5      3.8          B
                Subtotal        1299        1276       98.2%           17.8      1.1          B
                Left Turn        136         124       91.0%           60.6      4.8          E
                Through         1606        1526       95.0%           27.8      2.2          C
     WB
                Right Turn       536         501       93.4%           24.8      2.9          C
                Subtotal        2278        2150       94.4%           29.0      2.4          C
               Total            4040        3874       95.9%           26.1      1.4          C




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  1/1/2013
           SimTraffic Post-Processor                                      Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
           Average Results from 10 Runs                                                    Existing Conditions
           Queue Length                                                                          PM Peak Hour

           Intersection 1             Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                        Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)      Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.    Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn       240        39        6           83        12        0          0
                  NB     Through         519        36        8           78        11        0          0
                         Right Turn      390        37        2           61         8        0          0
                         Left Turn       476        52        6          110        19        0          0
                  SB     Through         476       117       10          196        24        2          0
                         Right Turn      476       117       10          196        24        2          0
                         Left Turn       230        59        9          121        27        0          0
                  EB     Through         492       193       15          281        28        2          0
                         Right Turn      492       150       19          248        28        0          0
                         Left Turn       220       115       11          205        21        1          0
                  WB     Through         471       205       19          347        31        5          0
                         Right Turn      471       232       18          364        22        0          0

           Intersection 2             Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                     Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)      Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.    Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn
                  NB     Through
                         Right Turn      508        43          3         76         6         0         0
                         Left Turn       675        99         10        182        26         0         0
                  SB     Through
                         Right Turn      675        144        11        227        33        1          0
                         Left Turn       150         66         8        139        20        0          0
                  EB     Through         471        175        26        337        44        7          0
                         Right Turn      471         91        12        212        32        0          0
                         Left Turn       200        101         7        210        15         0         0
                  WB     Through         590        522        36        719        22        28         8
                         Right Turn       50         52         5        101         2         1         0




Fehr & Peers                                                                                                      1/1/2013
 SimTraffic Post-Processor                                     Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
 Average Results from 10 Runs                                         Existing Plus Project Conditions
 Volume and Delay by Movement                                                           PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1              Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                       Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                   Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served     Average     Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn       74           67        90.5%         39.3         3.9          D
                Through         53           47        89.1%         36.1         3.9          D
     NB
                Right Turn      114          116       101.7%        11.2         0.7          B
                Subtotal        241          230        95.5%        24.5         2.0          C
                Left Turn       170          159        93.3%        36.4         3.3          D
                Through         38           40        106.3%        39.8         3.3          D
     SB
                Right Turn       77           77        99.7%        27.0         2.2          C
                Subtotal        285          276        96.8%        34.2         2.7          C
                Left Turn       76           73        95.7%         47.9         3.2          D
                Through        1058         1036        97.9%        26.1         1.6          C
     EB
                Right Turn       35           33        94.0%        16.5         3.4          B
                Subtotal       1169         1142        97.7%        27.2         1.6          C
                Left Turn       157          144        91.8%        44.1         4.7          D
                Through        1322         1290        97.6%        23.0         1.8          C
     WB
                Right Turn      133          121        91.0%        22.8         2.7          C
                Subtotal       1612         1555        96.5%        24.9         1.7          C
               Total           3307         3203        96.8%        26.5         1.3          C

 Intersection 2              Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                    Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                  Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served     Average    Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn
                Through
     NB
                Right Turn      188         183        97.2%           15.1       2.7          B
                Subtotal        188         183        97.2%           15.1       2.7          B
                Left Turn       310         298        96.1%           45.8       4.0          D
                Through
     SB
                Right Turn        48          46       95.8%           39.4       5.3          D
                Subtotal         358         344       96.1%           45.0       4.0          D
                Left Turn        75          68       90.9%            58.7       6.2          E
                Through         1210        1200      99.1%            18.9       1.4          B
     EB
                Right Turn        34          35      103.8%           11.4       3.5          B
                Subtotal        1319        1303       98.8%           20.8       1.3          C
                Left Turn        229         203       88.6%           67.2       5.7          E
                Through         1606        1530      95.3%            27.9       2.3          C
     WB
                Right Turn       536         505       94.2%           25.5       2.1          C
                Subtotal        2371        2238       94.4%           30.9       2.4          C
               Total            4236        4068       96.0%           28.2       1.2          C




Fehr & Peers                                                                                    1/1/2013
           SimTraffic Post-Processor                                      Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
           Average Results from 10 Runs                                         Existing Plus Project Conditions
           Queue Length                                                                           PM Peak Hour

           Intersection 1             Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                        Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)      Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.    Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn       240        51        5           98        11        0          0
                  NB     Through         519        36        6           76         8        0          0
                         Right Turn      390        39        3           67         7        0          0
                         Left Turn       476        57        6          119        18        0          0
                  SB     Through         476       122       11          205        19        3          0
                         Right Turn      476       122       11          205        19        3          0
                         Left Turn       230        61       10          121        35        0          0
                  EB     Through         492       199       13          292        24        3          0
                         Right Turn      492       159       15          260        22        0          0
                         Left Turn       220       111       16          196        26        0          0
                  WB     Through         471       213       17          360        39        5          0
                         Right Turn      471       235       11          368        21        0          0

           Intersection 2             Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                     Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)      Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.    Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn
                  NB     Through
                         Right Turn      508         76         8        135        26          0         0
                         Left Turn       675        106        13        184        18          0         0
                  SB     Through         675        151        16        241        30          1         0
                         Right Turn      675        151        16        241        30          1         0
                         Left Turn       150         65         7        135        15          0         0
                  EB     Through         471        192        20        366        26         12         0
                         Right Turn      471        110        21        244        47          0         0
                         Left Turn       200        161        10        257        14          6         0
                  WB     Through         590        544        27        716        23         27         8
                         Right Turn       50         51         4        101         3          1         0




Fehr & Peers                                                                                                       1/1/2013
 SimTraffic Post-Processor                                    Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
 Average Results from 10 Runs                      Existing Plus Project Conditions (Ext. Max. Green)
 Volume and Delay by Movement                                                          PM Peak Hour

 Intersection 1              Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                      Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                  Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served    Average     Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn       74           71        96.1%        38.5         3.3          D
                Through         53           48        90.9%        32.1         2.3          C
     NB
                Right Turn      114          115       100.7%       10.9         0.7          B
                Subtotal        241          234        97.1%       23.7         1.9          C
                Left Turn       170          157        92.5%       33.3         2.3          C
                Through         38           38        99.5%        37.3         4.6          D
     SB
                Right Turn       77           78       101.0%       25.3         1.7          C
                Subtotal        285          273        95.7%       31.6         2.1          C
                Left Turn       76           75        98.8%        45.7         4.4          D
                Through        1058         1021       96.5%        25.5         1.5          C
     EB
                Right Turn       35           32        92.6%       15.9         2.5          B
                Subtotal       1169         1128        96.5%       26.6         1.6          C
                Left Turn       157          143        91.2%       44.1         4.6          D
                Through        1322         1270       96.1%        23.0         1.5          C
     WB
                Right Turn      133          121        91.3%       22.2         2.7          C
                Subtotal       1612         1535        95.2%       24.9         1.4          C
               Total           3307         3170        95.9%       26.0         1.4          C

 Intersection 2              Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                   Signalized

                                       Volume (veh/hr)                 Total Delay (sec/veh)
  Direction       Movement    Demand       Served     % Served    Average    Std. Dev.      LOS
                Left Turn
                Through
     NB
                Right Turn      188         183        97.2%           14.3      2.5          B
                Subtotal        188         183        97.2%           14.3      2.5          B
                Left Turn       310         301        97.1%           44.5      4.2          D
                Through
     SB
                Right Turn        48          46       94.8%           39.5      7.7          D
                Subtotal         358         346       96.8%           43.9      4.5          D
                Left Turn        75          68        90.3%           57.0      5.8          E
                Through         1210        1194       98.6%           19.8      2.1          B
     EB
                Right Turn        34          32       94.7%           12.9      3.3          B
                Subtotal        1319        1294       98.1%           21.6      2.3          C
                Left Turn        229         206       89.8%           64.1      3.4          E
                Through         1606        1516       94.4%           29.3      2.0          C
     WB
                Right Turn       536         506       94.4%           26.8      2.3          C
                Subtotal        2371        2228       94.0%           31.9      2.0          C
               Total            4236        4050       95.6%           28.9      1.2          C




Fehr & Peers                                                                                  1/1/2013
           SimTraffic Post-Processor                                      Kings and Queens Casino Traffic Study
           Average Results from 10 Runs                        Existing Plus Project Conditions (Ext. Max. Green)
           Queue Length                                                                            PM Peak Hour

           Intersection 1             Zenith Drive-Tupelo Drive/Antelope Road                         Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)       Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.     Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn       240        53        6           98        15         0          0
                  NB     Through         519        36        6           78        10         0          0
                         Right Turn      390        39        4           69        10         0          0
                         Left Turn       476        54        9          117        19         0          0
                  SB     Through         476       117       11          197        31         2          0
                         Right Turn      476       117       11          197        31         2          0
                         Left Turn       230        63        8          135        25         0          0
                  EB     Through         492       195       11          283        25         2          0
                         Right Turn      492       151       15          246        23         0          0
                         Left Turn       220       108       10          198        23         0          0
                  WB     Through         471       212       16          364        32         5          0
                         Right Turn      471       232       12          368        18         0          0

           Intersection 2             Lichen Drive/Antelope Road                                      Signalized

                                       Storage   Average Queue (ft)      95th Queue (ft)       Block Time %
               Direction Movement        (ft)    Average Std. Dev.     Average Std. Dev.     Pocket Upstream
                         Left Turn
                  NB     Through
                         Right Turn      508         72         9        127        24          0          0
                         Left Turn       675        101        11        180        22          0          0
                  SB     Through         675        146        16        228        27          1          0
                         Right Turn      675        146        16        228        27          1          0
                         Left Turn       150         62         5        132         8          1          0
                  EB     Through         471        202        20        368        35         12          0
                         Right Turn      471        114        15        248        31          0          0
                         Left Turn       200        154        12        246        15          4          0
                  WB     Through         590        547        25        716        28         29          9
                         Right Turn       50         54         7        102         4          2          0




Fehr & Peers                                                                                                        1/1/2013
                                                                          Exhibit A


                         RESOLUTION 2013-_____________

   RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS
   ADOPTING NEGATIVE DECLARATION FOR THE RELOCATION OF TWO
             CARDROOMS TO 6508/6510 ANTELOPE ROAD

        WHEREAS, the applicant, Kings Casino LLC, proposes the reuse of an existing
building located at 6510 Antelope Road for the purpose of relocating two cardrooms
currently operating within the City to this location; and

       WHEREAS, on March 22, 2013, an Environmental Checklist and Initial Study
were prepared to examine potential areas of impact and whereas it was determined that an
Environmental Impact Report was not required and a Negative Declaration should be
prepared; and

       WHEREAS, the subject Negative Declaration utilizes relevant information from
the General Plan EIR, and relies on the General Plan EIR findings of fact and statement
of overriding considerations where applicable; and

       WHEREAS, a notice of Intent to Adopt a Negative Declaration was provided to
the public and responsible agencies, sufficiently prior to adoption by the lead agency to
allow the public and agencies a sufficient review prior in accordance with CEQA
guidelines; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 10, 2013, to
review the project and has recommended that the City Council adopt the Initial Study and
Negative Declaration for the project;

        WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on May 23, 2013, wherein
public testimony was taken and based upon the Initial Study and comments received the
proposed project could not have a significant effect on the environment;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Citrus Heights City Council hereby
finds as follows:

Section 1: Environmental Determination

   A. Pursuant to Section 15070 of the State CEQA Guidelines, the Ordinance has been
      reviewed through Initial Study and a Negative Declaration has been prepared.
      Based on the information contained in the environmental review the project is not
      anticipated to have impacts that will be significant.

   B. Pursuant to State CEQA Guidelines, it is determined that the Negative
      Declaration has been completed in compliance with CEQA and that this
      document has been presented to the City Council who has reviewed and
      considered all information contained therein prior to approving this project. As a
      result, the project will not have a significant environmental impact.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights this
  rd
23 day of May, 2013 by the following vote:
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:                                      __________________________
                                              Steve Miller, Mayor

ATTEST:


Amy Van, City Clerk

CODIFY_______                       UNCODIFY________

Attached:    Negative Declaration
Cardroom Project                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
Cardroom, Restaurant, Bar

1. Project Title:                                 Cardroom Project

2. Lead Agency Name and Address:                  City of Citrus Heights
                                                  6237 Fountain Square Drive
                                                  Citrus Heights 95621

3. Contact Person and Phone Number:               Alison Bermudez
                                                  (916) 727-4741


4. Project Location:                              6510 Antelope Road
                                                  Citrus Heights, CA 95621

5. Project Sponsor's Name and Address:            Kings Cardroom, Inc
                                                  7727 Herschel Ave.
                                                  La Jolla, CA 92037

6. General Plan Designation(s):                   General Commercial

7. Zoning Designation(s):                         SPA- Special Planning Area


8. Description of Project:
The applicant is proposing to reuse an existing vacant building located on the southwest side of Antelope
Road, adjacent the I-80 freeway. The building is located in an existing commercial development that is
one of the major catalysts for the redevelopment of this area. The existing building is 23,928 square feet
and the project includes minor building expansions that will increase the building to 24,941 square feet
(1,013 net square footage increase).
The applicant is proposing to relocate the City's two existing cardrooms to this new location where both
cardrooms would operate under "one roof". The cardrooms would offer card games legal in California
such as Blackjack and a variety of other poker games. There will be no slot machines within the facility.
The restaurant will provide food 24 hours a day with a limited menu on off-peak hours. The restaurant
will be designed to offer areas for intimate dining as well as space for parties and business meetings.
Other amenities include a bar area that will host a variety of events including live music on occasion. The
design includes a direct entrance for patrons wanting to visit the restaurant/bar without having to walk
through the cardroom area.
This project will require the approval of three different entitlements: 1) an Ordinance Text Amendment
to modify the zoning table to allow cardrooms within the "SC" zoning district and to include cardrooms
as an allowable "exception" to the distance separation between alcohol establishments; 2) A Use Permit



Page 1 of 30                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                 Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



to allow the operation of the cardroom with alcohol sales and approval of off-site parking; and 3) a
Design Review Permit Modification to allow significant exterior enhancements to the building and site
for the cardroom.
9. Surrounding Land Uses and Setting:
The project is within the incorporated City of Citrus Heights, within an existing commercial center. The
project site is located adjacent to Interstate 80 at the Antelope Road exit (exit 100). The building sits
within a shopping center along Antelope Road with the project driveway at Lichen Drive and Antelope
Road.
The project site is surrounded by commercial development. To the east of the project building is a large
two-story insurance office building and to the west is a multi-tenant commercial building that has a
variety of users including a sandwich shop, a pizza shop, and a liquor store. Also to the west of the site is
a large vacant building that was once occupied by a large retail grocer. To the south of site lies an
additional multi-tenant building that has a variety of retail users and a church.
10. Other public agencies whose approval is required: (e.g., permits, financing approval, or
participation agreement. Indicate whether another agency is a responsible or trustee agency.)

The applicants are in process of obtaining a gaming license from the State of California Division of
Gambling Control. The project will require permits from utility serving agencies such as California
American Water and Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District. In addition, the restaurant will require
approval from the Sacramento County Environmental Management Department.




Page 2 of 30                                                                                March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                          Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                       Figure 1 Project Site




                                                        Site: 6510 Antelope Road




               Off-site parking area




Page 3 of 30                                                                         March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                        Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




                   Figure 2 Site Plan




Page 4 of 30                                                       March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                         Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Environmental Factors Potentially Affected
The proposed project could potentially affect the environmental factor(s) checked below. The following
pages present a more detailed checklist and discussion of each environmental factor.

    Aesthetics                           Agriculture and Forestry Resources          Air Quality
    Biological Resources                 Cultural Resources                          Geology, Soils and Seismicity
    Greenhouse Gas Emissions             Hazards and Hazardous Materials             Hydrology and Water Quality
    Land Use and Land Use Planning       Mineral Resources                           Noise
    Population and Housing               Public Services                             Recreation
   Transportation and Traffic            Utilities and Service Systems               Mandatory Findings of Significance



DETERMINATION: (To be completed by Lead Agency)
On the basis of this initial study:

        I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment,
        and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
        environment, there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the
        project have been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED
        NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
        I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an
        ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.
        I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or
        "potentially significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one effect
        1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal
        standards, and 2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis
        as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required,
        but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.
        I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the
        environment, because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately
        in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and
        (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE
        DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the
        proposed project, no further environmental documentation is required.




Signature                                                           Date


Printed Name                                                        For




Page 5 of 30                                                                                        March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                             Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Environmental Checklist
Aesthetics
                                                                              Less Than
                                                                              Significant
                                                              Potentially        with        Less Than
                                                              Significant     Mitigation     Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                    Impact      Incorporation      Impact          No Impact

1.   AESTHETICS -- Would the project:
a)   Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista?

b)   Substantially damage scenic resources, including,
     but not limited to, trees, rock outcroppings, and
     historic buildings within a state scenic highway?
c)   Substantially degrade the existing visual character or
     quality of the site and its surroundings?
d)   Create a new source of substantial light or glare
     which would adversely affect daytime or nighttime
     views in the area?

Discussion
a)        The project is not located within a recognized scenic vista.

b)        There are no scenic highways within the project vicinity.

c)        The project consists of reusing an existing 23,928 square foot building that is located within an
          existing shopping center (see Figure 3). Commercial development exists on all sides of the project
          site. To the west and south, adjacent commercial buildings are separated by parking areas from the
          project site. Antelope Road forms the northern border of the project site and Interstate 80 is in close
          proximity to the eastern border.

          The project includes a minor expansion of 10,013 square feet. The building's exterior will be
          reimaged to include new window glazings, color scheme, and other minor exterior enhancements.
          The building's interior will be remodeled for the inclusion of the cardrooms/restaurant/bar. There
          project will not degrade the existing visual character of the site and its surroundings.

d)        The project will add new exterior light sources including four additional pole mounted parking lot
          lights and a variety of building mounted lights. Lights mounted on or near the building include
          accent lighting for pedestrian pathways, lights for the flag poles, accent tree lighting, low level
          lighting for the outdoor patio, lights for employee/secondary entrances, and security lights in the
          trash enclosure. The parking lot lights are full cut-off metal halide 250 watt pulse start fixture. Per
          the photometric plan, the parking lot illumination, in footcandles (fc), ranges from .03 fc to a few
          locations measuring 7.9 fc directly under parking lot metal halide lights along the western boundary.
          The site is surrounded by developed commercial all on sides of the project. The adjoining sites have
          existing parking lot lighting; therefore impacts related to new lighting sources are less than
          significant.




Page 6 of 30                                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                          Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                       Figure 3 Project Site




        Existing Building to be used




Page 7 of 30                                                                         March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                               Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011
CCS Architecture Photometric Plan, dated December 12, 2012.




Agricultural and Forest Resources
                                                                                Less Than
                                                                                Significant
                                                                Potentially        with        Less Than
                                                                Significant     Mitigation     Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                      Impact      Incorporation      Impact          No Impact

2.   AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST RESOURCES --
     In determining whether impacts to agricultural resources are significant environmental effects, lead agencies may refer
     to the California Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997) prepared by the California
     Department of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing impacts on agriculture and farmland. In
     determining whether impacts to forest resources, including timberland, are significant environmental effects, lead
     agencies may refer to information compiled by the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection regarding the
     state's inventory of forest land, including the Forest and Range Assessment Project and the Forest Legacy
     Assessment project; and forest carbon measurement methodology provided in Forest Protocols adopted by the
     California Air Resources Board.
     Would the project:
a)   Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or
     Farmland of Statewide Importance (Farmland), as
     shown on the maps prepared pursuant to the
     Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program of the
     California Resources Agency, to non-agricultural
     use?
b)   Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a
     Williamson Act contract?
c)   Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning
     of, forest land (as defined in Public Resources Code
     section 12220(g)), timberland (as defined by Public
     Resources Code section 4526), or timberland zoned
     Timberland Production (as defined by Government
     Code section 51104(g))?
d)   Result in the loss of forest land or conversion of
     forest land to non-forest use?
e)   Involve other changes in the existing environment
     which, due to their location or nature, could result in
     conversion of Farmland to non-agricultural use or
     conversion of forest land to non-forest use?

Discussion
a ­ e)    The project is the reuse of an existing building that is currently developed within a commercial
          shopping center. The site and adjacent parcels are zoned for commercial uses. There is no impact
          to agricultural and forest resources.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011



Page 8 of 30                                                                                                 March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                 Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Air Quality
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                Potentially         with          Less Than
                                                                Significant      Mitigation       Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                      Impact       Incorporation        Impact          No Impact

3.   AIR QUALITY --
     Where available, the significance criteria established by the applicable air quality management or air pollution control
     district may be relied upon to make the following determinations.
     Would the project:
a)   Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the
     applicable air quality plan?
b)   Violate any air quality standard or contribute
     substantially to an existing or projected air quality
     violation?
c)   Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of
     any criteria pollutant for which the project region is
     non-attainment under an applicable federal or state
     ambient air quality standard (including releasing
     emissions which exceed quantitative thresholds for
     ozone precursors)?
d)   Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant
     concentrations?
e)   Create objectionable odors affecting a substantial
     number of people?

Discussion
Air quality is regulated by several agencies, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA), the California Air Resources Board (CARB), and the local air district, which for this project is
the Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District (SMAQMD). At the federal level, the
USEPA is responsible for implementation of the Federal Clean Air Act (CAA) and establishing the
National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). The CARB promulgates ambient standards for
California, or the California Ambient Air Quality Standards (CAAQS). NAAQS have been established
for the following criteria pollutants: ozone (O3), particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter
(PM10) and less than 2.5 microns in diameter (PM2.5), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2),
sulfur dioxide (SO2), and lead. In addition, CAAQS have been established for hydrogen sulfide (H2S),
sulfates, and visibility reducing particles. The proposed project is located in the Sacramento Valley Air
Basin (Basin), and the SMAQMD is the regional agency responsible for implementing regulations
governing emissions of air pollution for this area. SMAQMD has published recommendations that
provide specific guidance on evaluating projects under CEQA relative to the above general criteria
(SMAQMD 2011). For evaluating both short-term emission increases during construction and long-term
emission increases during the operation of the project, SMAQMD recommends that lead agencies use
criteria of 85 pounds per day for NOx generated by construction activities and 65 pounds per day for
ROG or NOx generated by project operations to identify significant increases in emissions. For other
criteria pollutants, including carbon monoxide and PM10, a project that may cause an exceedance of the




Page 9 of 30                                                                                                    March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                         Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



respective state standards or may make a substantial 1 contribution to a current exceedance of a state
standard would have a significant adverse air quality impact.

     a) The project site is within the SMAQMD, which regulates air quality in the project area. Although
        the project requires a change in the zoning code it is consistent with the General Plan. This initial
        study demonstrates that the zoning code change will not have significant environmental effects
        since there are no physical changes to the environment. The project is consistent with all other
        applicable land use planning documents. This project would not directly result in population
        growth (e.g. housing development). Consequently, implementation of the proposed project would
        be consistent with the SMAQMD's air quality management plans.

     b) The project will occupy an existing building. There will not be any construction related
        emissions. Operational emissions will accrue from traffic generated by the project, which would
        result in a decrease in air quality. Emissions from this project will not violate the standards of the
        SMAQMD. Impact is less than significant.

     c) According to the SMAQMD guidelines, a cumulative impact occurs when two or more individual
        effects, considered together, are considerable or would compound or increase other
        environmental impacts. Cumulative impacts can result from individually minor but collectively
        significant impacts, meaning that the project's incremental effects are considerable when viewed
        in connection with the effects of past, current, and probable future projects. Notably, a project
        that has direct air quality impacts is considered to significantly contribute to a cumulative air
        quality impact in the area. Reuse of the existing building would not result in a cumulatively
        considerable net increase of any criteria pollutant, and would be less than significant.

     d) Carbon Monoxide Hotspots

         CO concentrations have declined dramatically in California due to existing controls and programs
         and most areas of the state, including the region in which the proposed project is located, have no
         problem meeting the state and federal CO standards. CO measurements and modeling were
         important in the early 1980s when CO levels were regularly exceeded throughout California. In
         more recent years, CO measurements and modeling have not been a priority in most California air
         districts due to the retirement of older polluting vehicles, fewer emissions from new vehicles and
         improvements in fuels.

         CO emissions in future years are expected to decrease due to reductions in the predicted CO
         emission factors resulting from a cleaner future mix of vehicles. Thus, mobile-source emissions of
         CO would not be anticipated to result in or contribute substantially to an air quality violation. The
         short-term construction and long-term operational mobile-source impact of the project on CO
         concentrations would be less-than-significant.




1   Substantial is defined by SMAQMD as making measurably worse, which is 5 percent or more of a current exceedance of a
    state standard.



Page 10 of 30                                                                                       March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                   Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



    e) Toxic Air Contaminants
         As a reoccupancy of an existing building the project would not result in short-term particulate matter
         (DPM) emissions, which are toxic air contaminants (TACs), from on-site heavy equipment.

         In addition, the long-term operation of the project would not result in any non-permitted sources of
         toxic air emissions. As a result, the project would have no impact to the exposure of sensitive
         receptors to substantial toxic air emissions.

         Types of land uses that typically pose potential odor problems include agriculture, wastewater
         treatment plants, food processing and rendering facilities, chemical plants, composting facilities,
         landfills, waste transfer stations, and dairies. In addition, the occurrence and severity of odor
         impacts depend on numerous factors, including the nature, frequency, and intensity of the source;
         wind speed and direction; and the presence of sensitive receptors. Although offensive odors rarely
         cause any physical harm, they can still be very unpleasant, leading to considerable distress and
         often generating citizen complaints to local governments and regulatory agencies. No part of the
         project would create odors at nearby sensitive receptors. Therefore the project has no impact in
         reference to odors.

References
Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District, CEQA Guide Update, 2010

City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Page 11 of 30                                                                                 March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                 Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Biological Resources
                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with        Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation     Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation      Impact          No Impact

4.     BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a)     Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or
       through habitat modifications, on any species
       identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special-status
       species in local or regional plans, policies, or
       regulations, or by the California Department of Fish
       and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?
b)     Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian
       habitat or other sensitive natural community
       identified in local or regional plans, policies,
       regulations or by the California Department of Fish
       and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service?
c)     Have a substantial adverse effect on federally
       protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the
       Clean Water Act (including, but not limited to, marsh,
       vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct removal,
       filling, hydrological interruption, or other means?
d)     Interfere substantially with the movement of any
       native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or
       with established native resident or migratory wildlife
       corridors, or impede the use of native wildlife nursery
       sites?
e)     Conflict with any local policies or ordinances
       protecting biological resources, such as a tree
       preservation policy or ordinance?
f)     Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat
       Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation
       Plan, or other approved local, regional, or state
       habitat conservation plan?

Discussion
a-e)        The project site is surrounded on all sides by urban development and the project is the reuse of an
            existing building within a fully developed shopping center. The site is without any natural
            features or vegetation except for non-native landscaping including trees and grasses. Therefore
            there would be no impact to special status species or habitats.

f)          There is no applicable HCP or NCCP in the City of Citrus Heights.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Page 12 of 30                                                                                                  March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                               Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Cultural Resources
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

5.     CULTURAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a)     Cause a substantial adverse change in the
       significance of a historical resource as defined in
       §15064.5?
b)     Cause a substantial adverse change in the
       significance of an archaeological resource pursuant to
       §15064.5?
c)     Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological
       resource or site or unique geologic feature?
d)     Disturb any human remains, including those interred
       outside of formal cemeteries?

Discussion
a-d)          There is no evidence cultural resources exist on the site. The project site is fully developed with
              buildings and asphalt paving. The project will reuse an existing building within a fully developed
              shopping center. Therefore there would be no impact to cultural resources.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011



Geology, Soils, and Seismicity
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

6.     GEOLOGY, SOILS, AND SEISMICITY --
       Would the project:
a)     Expose people or structures to potential substantial
       adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or
       death involving:
       i)     Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as
              delineated on the most recent Alquist-Priolo
              Earthquake Fault Zoning Map issued by the
              State Geologist for the area or based on other
              substantial evidence of a known fault? (Refer to
              Division of Mines and Geology Special
              Publication 42.)
       ii)    Strong seismic ground shaking?

       iii)   Seismic-related ground failure, including
              liquefaction?
       iv)    Landslides?




Page 13 of 30                                                                                              March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

b)   Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil?

c)   Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable,
     or that would become unstable as a result of the
     project, and potentially result in on- or off-site
     landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence, liquefaction,
     or collapse?
d)   Be located on expansive soil, as defined in
     Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building Code (1994),
     creating substantial risks to life or property?
e)   Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use
     of septic tanks or alternative wastewater disposal
     systems where sewers are not available for the
     disposal of wastewater?

Discussion
a)        The project site is not within an area mapped or otherwise identified as a seismic risk (City of
          Citrus Heights, 2011).

b)        The project site is currently fully developed including asphalt paving. There is no existing soil
          that will be moved, lost, or altered with this project. There is no potential erosion impact.

c ­d)     The project is not located on a soil unit known to be unstable or expansive.

e)        The project site currently has existing sewer service. No septic system is proposed. Therefore,
          there is no impact.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011



Greenhouse Gas Emissions
                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

7.   GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS --
     Would the project:
a)   Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either directly or
     indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the
     environment?
b)   Conflict with an applicable plan, policy or regulation
     adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of
     greenhouse gases?




Page 14 of 30                                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                           Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Discussion
a, b)    Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere are referred to as greenhouse gases (GHGs) because they
         capture heat radiated from the sun as it is reflected back into the atmosphere, similar to a
         greenhouse. The accumulation of GHGs has been implicated as a driving force for Global Climate
         Change. Definitions of climate change vary between and across regulatory authorities and the
         scientific community, but in general can be described as the changing of the earth's climate
         caused by natural fluctuations and the impact of human activities that alter the composition of
         the global atmosphere. Both natural processes and human activities emit GHGs. Global Climate
         Change is a change in the average weather on earth that can be measured by wind patterns,
         storms, precipitation and temperature. Although there is disagreement as to the speed of global
         warming and the extent of the impacts attributable to human activities, the vast majority of the
         scientific community now agrees that there is a direct link between increased emission of
         GHGs and long term global temperature. Potential global warming impacts in California may
         include, but are not limited to, loss in snow pack, sea level rise, more extreme heat days per year,
         more high ozone days, more large forest fires, and more drought years. Secondary effects are
         likely to include a global rise in sea level, impacts to agriculture, changes in disease vectors,
         and changes in habitat and biodiversity. GHG impacts are considered to be exclusively
         cumulative impacts; there are no non-cumulative GHG emission impacts from a climate change
         perspective (CAPCOA, 2008).

         The Project is consistent with the land uses assumed in the Citrus Heights Greenhouse Gas
         Reduction Plan, and does not conflict with any GHG reduction policies.

         The project would not be classified as a major source of greenhouse gas emissions by CARB (the
         lower reporting limit being 25,000 metric tons/year of CO2e). 2 This impact would be less than
         significant.

References
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). CEQA and Climate Change:
      Evaluating and Addressing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Projects Subject to the California
      Environmental Quality Act. 2008.
California Air Resources Board (CARB). Public Workshop to Discuss Establishing the 1990 Emissions
      Level and the California 2020 Limit and Developing Regulations to Require Reporting of
      Greenhouse Gas Emissions. December 1, 2006.
City of Citrus Heights, Citrus Heights Greenhouse Gas Reduction Plan. August 2011.




2 CO e is an abbreviation for "carbon dioxide equivalent." Greenhouse gases have various potencies, which can be expressed by
    2
   converting them to the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide.



Page 15 of 30                                                                                         March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Hazards and Hazardous Materials
                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

8.   HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS --
     Would the project:
a)   Create a significant hazard to the public or the
     environment through the routine transport, use, or
     disposal of hazardous materials?
b)   Create a significant hazard to the public or the
     environment through reasonably foreseeable upset
     and accident conditions involving the release of
     hazardous materials into the environment?
c)   Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or
     acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste
     within one-quarter mile of an existing or proposed
     school?
d)   Be located on a site which is included on a list of
     hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant to
     Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a result,
     would it create a significant hazard to the public or the
     environment?
e)   For a project located within an airport land use plan
     or, where such a plan has not been adopted, within
     two miles of a public airport or public use airport,
     would the project result in a safety hazard for people
     residing or working in the project area?
f)   For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip,
     would the project result in a safety hazard for people
     residing or working in the project area?
g)   Impair implementation of or physically interfere with
     an adopted emergency response plan or emergency
     evacuation plan?
h)   Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss,
     injury or death involving wildland fires, including where
     wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas or where
     residences are intermixed with wildlands?

Discussion
a ­ b) The proposed project is the reuse of an existing commercial building for a cardroom, restaurant,
       and bar and as such, the site would not use potentially hazardous materials.

c)        The project would not emit hazardous substances or materials. There is no school within one-
          quarter of a mile of the project site. There is no impact.

d)        The project site is not listed on the Hazardous Waste and Substances Sites (Cortese) List.

e ­ f)    The nearest airports are Sacramento International Airport, 21 miles west, Sacramento Mather Air
          Field, 13.5 miles south, and McClellan Airfield, seven miles southwest. The project is not within
          the influence area of either airport. Therefore, there is no impact.




Page 16 of 30                                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                 Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



g)        The project site is accessed from Antelope Road and from several locations within the shopping
          center. The project itself would not require the closure of any public right of way. Therefore,
          there is no impact to evacuation or emergency response plans.

h)        The project is located within an urbanized area, and is not adjacent to wildlands. Therefore, no
          impact is associated with wildland fire hazards.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011
Cortese List January 2013 http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/Cortese_List.cfm




Hydrology and Water Quality
                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                                   Significant
                                                                   Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                   Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                         Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

9.   HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY --
     Would the project:
a)   Violate any water quality standards or waste
     discharge requirements?
b)   Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere
     substantially with groundwater recharge such that there
     would be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a lowering
     of the local groundwater table level (e.g., the production
     rate of pre-existing nearby wells would drop to a level
     which would not support existing land uses or planned
     uses for which permits have been granted)?
c)   Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of a
     site or area through the alteration of the course of a
     stream or river, or by other means, in a manner that would
     result in substantial erosion or siltation on- or off-site?
d)   Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of a site
     or area through the alteration of the course of a stream
     or river, or by other means, substantially increase the
     rate or amount of surface runoff in a manner that would
     result in flooding on- or off-site?
e)   Create or contribute runoff water which would exceed
     the capacity of existing or planned stormwater drainage
     systems or provide substantial additional sources of
     polluted runoff?
f)   Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?
g)   Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area as
     mapped on a federal Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood
     Insurance Rate Map or other flood hazard delineation
     map?
h)   Place within a 100-year flood hazard area structures
     that would impede or redirect flood flows?
i)   Expose people or structures to a significant risk of
     loss, injury or death involving flooding, including
     flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or dam?




Page 17 of 30                                                                                                March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

j)     Expose people or structures to a significant risk of
       loss, injury or death involving inundation by seiche,
       tsunami, or mudflow?

Discussion
a-f)        The project is served by domestic water that is already in place and would not deplete
            groundwater. The project is relatively small (1.88 acres), and is currently paved and developed.
            There are no known overdraft issues in the City. Reuse of the site would not have a substantial
            effect on groundwater recharge.

c)          The project will be served by existing storm drains. The site is currently fully paved so there will
            be no increase in runoff. There would be no substantial alteration of drainages, and no resulting
            increase in erosion.
d)          The project is not located near a stream or river. Storm water is transported by existing
            underground storm water lines within the project site.
e)          The project would be served by an existing storm water drain and there are no known capacity
            issues.
f)          The project would not cause additional discharge to surface or ground water.
g ­ j)      The project site is not in or adjacent to the floodplain. The project site is not located within a dam
            inundation area. There are no nearby water bodies susceptible to seiche, tsunami, or mudflow.
            Flooding impacts are therefore less than significant.
References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011



Land Use and Land Use Planning
                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

10. LAND USE AND LAND USE PLANNING --
    Would the project:
a)     Physically divide an established community?

b)     Conflict with any applicable land use plan, policy, or
       regulation of an agency with jurisdiction over the
       project (including, but not limited to the general plan,
       specific plan, local coastal program, or zoning
       ordinance) adopted for the purpose of avoiding or
       mitigating an environmental effect?




Page 18 of 30                                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                               Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

c)   Conflict with any applicable habitat conservation plan
     or natural community conservation plan?

Discussion
a)        The project is the reuse of an existing building that is within a developed shopping center.
          Therefore, the project would not divide an established community.

b)        The project site is designated as general commercial by the general plan and the surrounding land
          uses share the same general plan designation as the project site. The project does not conflict any
          goals and/or policies of the General Plan for this area.

          The project site is located within the SC zoning district and this zone is applied to areas
          appropriate for a wide range of retail and service land uses, promoting the unified grouping of
          these uses with convenient off-street parking and loading. Although the project requires a
          change in the zoning code it is consistent with the SC zoning designation. Since this project does
          not result in any physical impacts, this change does not constitute a significant impact.

c)        The project site is not subject to an HCP or NCCP.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011
City of Citrus Heights. Zoning Code. Effective April 24, 2011




Mineral Resources
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

11. MINERAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a)   Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral
     resource that would be of value to the region and the
     residents of the state?
b)   Result in the loss of availability of a locally important
     mineral resource recovery site delineated on a local
     general plan, specific plan or other land use plan?

Discussion
a -b)     There are no known mineral resources in the vicinity of the project.




Page 19 of 30                                                                                              March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                  Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




References



Noise
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

12. NOISE -- Would the project:
a)   Result in exposure of persons to, or generation of,
     noise levels in excess of standards established in the
     local general plan or noise ordinance, or applicable
     standards of other agencies?
b)   Result in exposure of persons to or generation of,
     excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne
     noise levels?
c)   Result in a substantial permanent increase in ambient
     noise levels in the project vicinity above levels existing
     without the project?
d)   Result in a substantial temporary or periodic increase
     in ambient noise levels in the project vicinity above
     levels existing without the project?
e)   For a project located within an airport land use plan
     area, or, where such a plan has not been adopted, in
     an area within two miles of a public airport or public
     use airport, would the project expose people residing
     or working in the area to excessive noise levels?
f)   For a project located in the vicinity of a private airstrip,
     would the project expose people residing or working in
     the project area to excessive noise levels?

Discussion
a)           The City of Citrus Heights Municipal Code contains Standards that apply to noise levels
             allowed within a residential area (City of Citrus Heights, 2008). Section 34-86 of the
             Municipal Code identifies noise standards of 55 dBA between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
             p.m. and 50 dBA between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. It shall be noted that the
             project site is not located within a residentially zoned area and the closest residentially zoned
             property is nearly 400 feet away and is separated by Interstate 80.

             Construction
             The proposed project is the reuse of an existing building that is located in a fully developed
             commercial center along Antelope Road. The project does not include the expansion or
             construction of any new structures. The project is required to comply with the City of Citrus
             Heights Noise Ordinance that limits construction to between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00
             p.m. weekdays and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekends. Therefore there
             would be no impact from temporary construction noise.




Page 20 of 30                                                                                                 March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



           Traffic and Operation Noise
           In Citrus Heights, the primary noise source is vehicular traffic, although railroad industrial
           sources also contribute to noise levels in certain areas. As shown on Figure 4, Roadway Noise
           Contours, on the following page ambient noise is most influenced by traffic on Interstate 80 and
           major roadways such as Greenback Lane, Sunrise Boulevard, Antelope Road, Auburn
           Boulevard/Old Auburn Road, San Juan Avenue, Madison Avenue, Fair Oaks Boulevard, and
           Sylvan Road. For noise sensitive areas, such as schools, residences, and religious place of
           worship, neighborhood noise surveys were conducted to document existing ambient noise (data
           is found in the General Plan Background Report).




Page 21 of 30                                                                              March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                          Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                   Figure 4 Roadway Noise Contours




Page 22 of 30                                                        March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                        Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



           The General Plan establishes allowable noise exposure levels for nonresidential development.
           Table 1 below shows acceptable noise levels by land use in the City. According to the General
           Plan, the acceptable noise level for commercial properties should not exceed 70 dB.

                                    Table 1 Acceptable Noise Levels by Land Use

                                           City of Citrus Heights Acceptable Noise Levels
                                                                                    Community Noise Exposure
                                                                                    Ldn or CNEL, dBA
Land Use Category
                                                                                   Normally           Conditionally      Normally      Clearly
                                                                                   Acceptable 1       Acceptable 2       Unacceptable3 Unacceptable 4

Residential: Low-Density Single Family, Duplex, Mobile Homes                               60                 65                 75                 85
Residential: Multiple Family                                                               65                 70                 75                 85
Transient Lodging: Motels, Hotels                                                          65                 70                 80                 85
Schools, Libraries, Churches, Hospitals, Nursing Homes                                     70                 70                 80                 85
Auditoriums, Concert Halls, Amphitheaters                                                  --                 70                 --                 85
Sports Arena, Outdoor Spectator Sports                                                     --                 75                 --                 85
Playgrounds, Neighborhood Parks                                                            70                 --                 75                 85
Golf Courses, Riding Stable, Water Recreation, Cemeteries                                  75                 --                 80                 85
Office Buildings, Business Commercial and Professional                                     70                 75                 85                 --
Industrial, Manufacturing, Utilities, Agriculture                                          75                 80                 85                 --
Notes:
1
  Specific land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any buildings involved are of normal conventional construction, without any special noise
  insulation requirements
2
  New construction or development should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirement is made and needed noise insulation
  features included in the design. Conventional construction, but with closed windows and fresh air supply systems or air conditioning will normally suffice.
3
  New construction or development should generally be discouraged. If new construction or development does proceed, a detailed analysis of the noise
  reduction requirements must be made and needed noise insulation features included in the design.
4
  New construction or development should generally not be undertaken.
Source: City of Citrus Heights General Plan Noise Element, February 2002, Adapted from the Office of Planning and Research, State of California General Plan
Guidelines. Appendix A: Guidelines for the Preparation and Content of the Noise Element of the General Plan, 1990.




b-d)       The proposed project is the reuse of an existing building within an existing commercial
           development and there are no additional buildings or expansions of existing buildings planned
           with this project. The site adjoins Interstate 80 which is a source of traffic noise, however, most
           functions of this business will be within a building and people will not be exposed to excessive
           noise.
           Vibration and ground-borne noise issues tend to occur when physically forceful or ground-
           penetratin equipment is utilized, such as pile drivers or where blasting is necessary. No such
           equipment or activities are required during construction or operations of the proposed project.
           Thus, the proposed project would not generate significant groundborne vibration or groundborne
           noise impacts.
           The project includes a restaurant and bar that will on occasion host events including indoor live
           music. Music is conveyed to listeners through very small fluctuations in air pressure. These
           fluctuations are perceived by the human hearing mechanism as sound. These small pressure
           fluctuations lack adequate energy to cause feelable groundborne vibration. Groundborne
           vibration is more commonly caused by heavy vehicles on roadways or tracks (trucks and trains)
           or large machinery such as pile drivers or compactors.




Page 23 of 30                                                                                                          March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                               Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



e-f)         The project is not located within two miles of a public airport or private airstrip. The project
             would not expose people working in the area to excessive noise levels.



Population and Housing
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

13. POPULATION AND HOUSING -- Would the project:
a)     Induce substantial population growth in an area, either
       directly (for example, by proposing new homes and
       businesses) or indirectly (for example, through
       extension of roads or other infrastructure)?
b)     Displace substantial numbers of existing housing
       units, necessitating the construction of replacement
       housing elsewhere?
c)     Displace substantial numbers of people, necessitating
       the construction of replacement housing elsewhere?

Discussion
a - b)       The project site is currently developed with a commercial building and the proposed project is
             consistent with that use. The project will not displace any people or housing units, therefore there
             is no impact.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Public Services
                                                                                 Less Than
                                                                                 Significant
                                                                 Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                 Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                       Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

14. PUBLIC SERVICES -- Would the project:
a)     Result in substantial adverse physical impacts
       associated with the provision of, or the need for, new
       or physically altered governmental facilities, the
       construction of which could cause significant
       environmental impacts, in order to maintain
       acceptable service ratios, response times, or other
       performance objectives for any of the following public
       services:
       i)    Fire protection?

       ii)   Police protection?




Page 24 of 30                                                                                              March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

     iii)   Schools?

     iv)    Parks?

     v)     Other public facilities?


Discussion
a)          The project is located within a developed area that would not induce growth. Fire protection is
            provided by the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District (SMFD). The nearest station is Station 27,
            approximately 1.3 miles away on Grand Oaks Boulevard. Police protection is provided by the
            Citrus Heights Police Department. The police station is approximately 3.5 miles away, on
            Fountain Square Drive and Greenback Lane. There are no identified issues with public services
            for the project site.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011



Recreation
                                                                                  Less Than
                                                                                  Significant
                                                                  Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                  Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                        Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

15. RECREATION -- Would the project:
a)   Increase the use of existing neighborhood and regional
     parks or other recreational facilities such that
     substantial physical deterioration of the facilities would
     occur or be accelerated?
b)   Include recreational facilities or require the
     construction or expansion of recreational facilities that
     might have an adverse physical effect on the
     environment?

Discussion
a ­ b) As described above, the project would not include, nor induce demand, for recreational facilities.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Page 25 of 30                                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                  Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Transportation and Traffic
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

16. TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC --
    Would the project:
a)   Conflict with an applicable plan, ordinance or policy
     establishing measures of effectiveness for the
     performance of the circulation system, taking into
     account all modes of transportation including mass
     transit and non-motorized travel and relevant
     components of the circulation system, including but not
     limited to intersections, streets, highways and freeways,
     pedestrian and bicycle paths, and mass transit?
b)   Conflict with an applicable congestion management
     program, including, but not limited to, level of service
     standards and travel demand measures, or other
     standards established by the county congestion
     management agency for designated roads or
     highways?
c)   Result in a change in air traffic patterns, including
     either an increase in traffic levels or a change in
     location, that results in substantial safety risks?
d)   Substantially increase hazards due to a design feature
     (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or
     incompatible uses (e.g., farm equipment)?
e)   Result in inadequate emergency access?
f)   Conflict with adopted policies, plans, or programs
     regarding public transit, bicycle, or pedestrian facilities,
     or otherwise decrease the performance or safety of
     such facilities?




Discussion
     a) In August 11, 2011, the City of Citrus Heights adopted its General Plan Update. Policy 29.2 of
        the General Plan specifies the following:

             ·     The City will strive to achieve LOS E or better conditions for roadways and intersections
                   during peak hours (these may include weekday AM, midday, and PM, as well as Saturday
                   midday or PM). The intent of this policy is to effectively utilize the roadway network
                   capacity while balancing the desire to minimize potential adverse effects of vehicle travel
                   on the environment and other modes. Exceptions to the LOS E policy are allowed for
                   roadway segments and intersections along five arterials in the City including Antelope
                   Road east of I-80. On these five arterials, no roadway widening to provide additional
                   vehicle capacity will be permitted. Development projects that cause an impact at these
                   locations may also require mitigation (including, but not limited to) the following:
                         o Actions that reduce vehicle trips or provide non-auto improvements to the
                             transportation network or service.




Page 26 of 30                                                                                                 March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                           Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                              o   Lengthening of turn pockets.
                              o   Signal timing modifications.

         In accordance with Policy 29.2, the proposed project would have a significant impact on the
         roadway system if it would:

                ·       Worsen peak hour operations at an intersection maintained by the City of Citrus Heights
                        from LOS E or better to LOS F.

         A focused traffic analysis was prepared for the project (report dated January 9, 2013 and on file
         with the Planning Division). The study revealed that the project would cause modest increases in
         delays at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection. However, operations
         would remain at existing service levels.

         Fehr and Peers also performed a queuing analysis for the weekday PM peak hour 3 at the
         following study intersections:

                ·       Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway
                ·       Antelope Road/Zenith Drive/Tupelo Drive
         The results reveal the following key conclusions:

                    · Development of the project would cause traffic to spill out of the westbound left-turn
                      lane. The maximum green time for the westbound left-turn movement is 18.5 seconds,
                      which is not sufficient to accommodate existing traffic plus project-generated trips.
                      Observations of the simulation show frequent queues that do not fully dissipate (i.e.
                      vehicles at the end of the queue do not make it through the intersection and have to sit
                      through an additional signal cycle before clearing the intersection).
                    ·        Development of the project would cause increased queuing on the project driveway
                             approach to Antelope Road. Traffic would queue nearly back to the first internal
                             intersection, but would not adversely affect that intersection or public street operations.

         Fehr and Peers stated that the project would not cause a significant impact at either study
         intersection; it is consistent with Policy 29.2 of the General Plan. However, the following
         recommendations are offered to address the expected vehicular queuing problem caused by the
         project in the westbound left-turn lane at the Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway
         intersection (see Figure 4):


                         ·     Increase the westbound left-turn pocket length at the Antelope Road/Lichen
                               Drive/Project Driveway intersection from 200 feet to 300 feet.



   3 The PM peak hour was selected for evaluation (versus the AM peak hour) because casino/cardrooms are known to generate
    more traffic during this period.



Page 27 of 30                                                                                         March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                 Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration



                   ·   Increase the maximum green time for the westbound left-turn movement at the
                       Antelope Road/Lichen Drive/Project Driveway intersection from 18.5 seconds to
                       24.5 seconds.



b)       The project would not violate any congestion management standards or plans. The current City
         level of service (LOS) standard for the study intersections is E. As demonstrated in the report
         prepared by Fehr & Peers, the proposed project would not lower the LOS for any study
         intersections.

c)       The project would have no impact on air traffic patterns. The project is not located within the
         airport influence of a public airport.

d)       The project would utilize an existing driveway on Antelope Road (note that the project can also
         be accessed through the existing commercial center parking lot). The use of this driveway would
         not create a hazard and there is no impact.

e)       The project site is currently accessible from both the front (Antelope Road) and the back (through
         the shopping center). The project would continue to allow these two access points. Therefore,
         there is no impact to emergency access.

f)       Antelope Road is designated for a future Class II Bikeway in the General Plan. The project would
         not alter any driveway or roadway section and would therefore have a less than significant effect
         upon the implementation of the General Plan.

         The project is required to have bicycle parking in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance. Section
         106.36.060 of the City Municipal Code requires 1 bicycle parking space per 20 automobile spaces
         (for parking lots up to 100 spaces). The proposed project provides 109 on-site parking spaces
         therefore the project is required to provide two bicycle parking spaces.

         Antelope Road is currently served by transit. The proposed project would not interfere with
         current transit access and ridership.



References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011
Fehr & Peers. Focused Traffic Analysis for Cardroom Project, Citrus Heights, CA. January 9, 2013.




Page 28 of 30                                                                               March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                  Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Utilities and Service Systems
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

17. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS --
    Would the project:
a)     Conflict with wastewater treatment requirements of
       the applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board?
b)     Require or result in the construction of new water or
       wastewater treatment facilities or expansion of
       existing facilities, the construction of which could
       cause significant environmental effects?
c)     Require or result in the construction of new storm
       water drainage facilities, or expansion of existing
       facilities, the construction of which could cause
       significant environmental effects?
d)     Have sufficient water supplies available to serve the
       project from existing entitlements and resources, or
       are new or expanded entitlements needed?
e)     Result in a determination by the wastewater treatment
       provider that would serve the project that it has
       adequate capacity to serve the project's projected
       demand in addition to the provider's existing
       commitments?
f)     Be served by a landfill with sufficient permitted capacity
       to accommodate the project's solid waste disposal needs?
g)     Comply with federal, state, and local statutes and
       regulations related to solid waste?

Discussion
a-e)        The project is the reuse of an existing building and has established facilities including water,
            storm water, wastewater systems. The project will be required to connect to these existing
            systems. The project will not impact capacity or service levels.

f-g)        Solid waste and recycling services are required for the project. The project will not generate a
            substantial amount of waste, and would be served by existing facilities and be in accordance with
            all local, state, and federal regulations.
References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Page 29 of 30                                                                                                 March 20, 2013
Cardroom Project                                                                  Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration




Mandatory Findings of Significance
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with         Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation      Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation       Impact        No Impact

18. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE --
    Would the project:
a)   Have the potential to degrade the quality of the
     environment, substantially reduce the habitat of a fish
     or wildlife species, cause a fish or wildlife population
     to drop below self-sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate
     a plant or animal community, reduce the number or
     restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant or
     animal, or eliminate important examples of the major
     periods of California history or prehistory?
b)   Have impacts that are individually limited, but cumulatively
     considerable? ("Cumulatively considerable" means
     that the incremental effects of a project are considerable
     when viewed in connection with the effects of past
     projects, the effects of other current projects, and the
     effects of probable future projects)?
c)   Have environmental effects that would cause substantial
     adverse effects on human beings, either directly or
     indirectly?

Discussion
a)        As described above, the project site does not contain biological or cultural resources.

b)        This project will not result in cumulative impacts.

c)        The project would not cause substantial effects on human beings.

References
City of Citrus Heights. Final Environmental Impact Report, General Plan Update. SCH# 2010072041.
      July 1, 2011




Page 30 of 30                                                                                                 March 20, 2013
                                                                                            Exhibit B



                               ORDINANCE 2013-_____________

  AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS AMENDING ARTICLE 2,
SECTION 106.26.030, TABLE 2-5 AND AMENDING ARTICLE 4, SECTION 106.42.010
                       OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE


THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: Purpose and Authority

The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend Article 2, Table 2-5 of the City of Citrus
Heights Zoning Ordinance in regards to Allowed Land Uses; and amend Article 4,
Section 106.42.010 of the City of Citrus Heights Zoning Ordinance in regards to
exceptions for distance requirements, Alcoholic Beverage Sales, as shown below.

Section 2: Findings

   a) The proposed ordinance text amendment is consistent with the Citrus Heights
      General Plan and

   b) There is no substantial evidence that the proposed Zoning Code Text Change
      will have a significant effect on the environment.

Section 3: Amendments to Zoning Code

Table 2-5 is amended as follows:

TABLE 2-5                                           P
                                                         Permitted Use, Zoning
                                                         Clearance required
Allowed Land Uses and Permit                             Conditional use, Minor Use
                                                   MUP
Requirements                                             Permit required
for Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts     UP
                                                         Conditional use Permit
                                                         required
                                                    S    Permit requirement set by Specific Use Regulations
                                                         Use not
                                                   --
                                                         allowed
                                       PERMIT
                                      REQUIRED
                                     BY DISTRICT                                                 Specific Use
 LAND USE (1)                            BP        LC    SC    GC     AC      CR       MP        Regulations

RECREATION, EDUCATION & PUBLIC
ASSEMBLY USES
               Adult entertainment
                                         --         S    --     S     --      --        S          106.40
               business
               Bingo parlor              --        --    --    UP     --      --       --      10.81 - 10.100
               Card room                 --        --    UP    UP     --      --       --       10.26 - 10.54

106.42.010(C) is amended to read as follows:

106.42.020 - Alcoholic Beverage Sales 106.42.020
A.       Purpose.     Establishments that serve alcoholic beverages receive special
attention from the City because of their potential to create problems, such as littering,
loitering, public intoxication and disturbances. The City shall review all establishments
selling alcoholic beverages.

B.     Distance requirements. No on-sale or off-sale liquor establishment shall be
maintained within 500 feet of any other on-sale or off-sale liquor establishment or within
500 feet from the following "consideration points":

1.     Schools (public or private);

2.     Churches or other places of worship;

3.     Hospitals, clinics, or other health care facilities; and

4.     Public parks and playgrounds and other similar uses.

The distance of 500 feet shall be measured between the nearest entrances used by
patrons of the establishments along the shortest route intended and available for public
passage to other establishments, or to the nearest property line of any of the
consideration points.

C.      Exceptions for distance requirements. Veterans clubs, bonafide restaurants, food
markets, supermarkets, drugstores, cardrooms, or any other retail establishment where
off-sale of alcoholic beverages constitute less than 20 percent of total sales, fraternal
organizations, and existing alcohol serving establishments may be closer than 500 feet
from one another or any of the consideration points.

Section 4: Severability

If any section of this Ordinance is determined to be unenforceable, invalid, or unlawful,
such determination shall not effect the enforceability of the remaining provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5: Effective Date and Publication

This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its adoption, and within fifteen (15)
days after its passage, shall be posted in three public places.

      PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights this
_______day of _________, 2013 by the following vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:                                               __________________________
                                                       Steve Miller, Mayor

ATTEST:
_____________________________
Amy Van, City Clerk
                                                                                                             Exhibit C



March 7, 2013


Attn:   Alison Bermudez
        Associate Planner
        City of Citrus Heights
        6237 Fountain Square Drive
        Citrus Heights, CA 95621


Project Name:               Stones Casino
Project Address:            6510 Antelope Road, Citrus Heights, CA 95621


Subject:                    Project Description


Dear Mrs. Alison Bermudez:


See the requested project description (Note: New comments will be in bold text.):

Project Description:

        King's Casino, LLC ("Kings", Casino Project) is purchasing the Lucky Derby Casino ("Lucky Derby") located
        at 7433 Greenback Lane, Citrus Heights, CA and Phoenix Casino & Lounge ("Phoenix") located at 5948
        Auburn Boulevard, Citrus Heights, CA. Kings will operate the two existing cardrooms in their current
        place of business until we are ready to move into our new location. The new location will be located at
        6510 Antelope Road, Citrus Heights, CA in the Antelope Crossings Business Area. Situated on the I-80
        Freeway at the Antelope Boulevard exit, it will be one of the only cardrooms located on the freeway in all
        of Sacramento County and is an ideal location given the freeway visibility and easy access for commuters.

        Kings will occupy a 23,600 square foot building that is currently vacant. The property site and building
        will undergo a significant remodel with a net addition of 1,013 square feet to the building, after
        receiving approvals from the City of Citrus Heights and State of California Bureau of Gambling Control.
        Kings has retained CCS Architecture ("CCS") (www.ccs-architecture.com) based out of San Francisco to
        design the new space which will include an American style neighborhood restaurant with a large center
        bar, lounge areas, private offices, as well as the two cardrooms in a state of the art, secured building.
        CCS has over 20 years of experience in designing restaurants and is highly acclaimed for their work both
        architecturally and for the commercial success of their projects. Kings has a lease/purchase option on
        the property and given the significant financial commitment it is making to the business, Kings believes
        strongly it will be a major catalyst for the revitalization of the Antelope Crossings Business Area.

        Principals: Ryan E. Stone, Masis A. Kevorkian, Kermit Schayltz, Robert Lytle.

        Licensing & Regulations: Kings, and its shareholders, will be licensed by the State of California as a
        California Cardroom. In general, California Cardrooms are licensed to offer all types of gaming with the
        exception of slot machines, craps and roulette.

        Kings will be licensed to operate two separate 15-table cardrooms (30 tables total). Games will include
        traditional poker as well as the California Game tables which will include Blackjack, Three Card Poker, EZ
        Baccarat and Pai Gow Poker.

                       44 McLea Court San Francisco California 94103 415.864.2800 tel 415.864.2850 fax www.ccs-architecture.com

                                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
Kings revenue will be derived in poker games from the "rake" or collection fee taken from each pot for
each hand. Unlike "Las Vegas" casinos, California Cardrooms are not permitted to act as the "house" and
"bank" non-poker games. As such, King's revenue will not be subject to swings in wins and losses.
Rather, players and/or the bank pay a fee for each hand to the cardroom.

The Lucky Derby and Phoenix have been in business for over 20 years. Currently, the Lucky Derby
operates 13 tables (with a maximum of 15) and the Phoenix operates 10 (with a maximum of 15). Both
existing cardrooms are open 24x7, are 21-over (age) and have small restaurant and bar facilities. In total
the number of employees and third-party providers on site will be in the 275-300 person range, with
approximately 75-100 employees on site depending on non-peak and peak hours.

The project aims to serve the broadest definition of a "target audience" by being the first-of-its-kind
destination combining a new and highly-rated "neighborhood" restaurant with an already successful pair
of cardrooms in the local area, with proven records for contributing to the local entertainment and social
experience of the city. The project aims to serve all markets broadly with its restaurant, bar and grill
atmosphere and plans to offer hand-selected live entertainment in an intimate setting, from music to
comedy, aiming to appeal to all ages and family demographics in the market area with the restaurant
portion of the project. The age restriction for the cardrooms and the layout design will maintain
appropriate separation without closing off age-appropriate customers.

The restaurant's and bar's design concept is that of a new casual American regional grill designed with
urban and rustic details. It will serve classic comfort food: burgers, wood-fired pizzas, and will provide
several Asian food offerings for a more diverse range of offerings for the patrons of the restaurant, bar
and cardrooms. The restaurant would serve food 24 hours daily, with a smaller bar-type menu at non-
peak hours. The architecture and layout of the restaurant, bar and grill provide distinctly different dining
experiences: a Bar Dining area under the main vaulted massive truss ceiling, a secluded Dining area to
the side of the Bar for more intimate and personal experiences, and finally an adjacent Corporate
Events area for expanded main dining, private dining reservations or parties and business meeting
accommodations, as well.




           44 McLea Court San Francisco California 94103 415.864.2800 tel 415.864.2850 fax www.ccs-architecture.com

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                                                                                                                                                                     Exhibit D

                                                        11. Exterior Paint:
                                                            Sherwin-Williams, Black Fox, SW702
                                                         2. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                            Pulp Studio, #6503-ORPP
                                                        3. Storefront Specialty Glazing:

                STONES CASINO                              Pulp Studio, #249 BRZ
                                                        9. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                           Paragon, .76 Trans
                                                        5. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                           Paragon, P-702
                                                         1. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                            Pulp Studio, GRY
                                                        8. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                           Paragon, Orange Peel
                                                        4. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                           Pulp Studio, #6500-ZPTZ
                                                        10. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                           Paragon, P-602
                                                         7. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
                                                            Paragon, Cranberry


                                                         3. Window Glazing:
                                                            Pulp Studio, #249 BRZ
                                                        12. Exterior Paint:
                                                            Glidden, Wright Stone #10YY 30/106
                                                        14. Window Frames/Mullions:
                                                            Arcadia, Anodized Alum., #88 Std Dk. Bronze AB-7
                                                        6. Storefront Specialty Glazing:
NORTH ELEVATION: MAIN ENTRY                                Paragon, Dusk
                                                        13. Exterior Cladding: Oak Planks w/ Charred Finish

                                                        14. Exterior Door Frames/Mullions:
                                                            Arcadia, Anodized Alum., #88 Std Dk. Bronze AB-7
                                                        3. Storefront Glazing:
                                                           Pulp Studio, #249 BRZ




                                                                                                               EXTERIOR MATERIALS AND FINISHES


                                                                                                               1.      2.         3.         4.         1. Pulp Studio, GRY
                                                                                                                                                        2. Pulp Studio, #6503-ORPP
                                                                                                                                                        3. Pulp Studio, #249 BRZ
                                                                                                               5.           6.         7.               4. Pulp Studio, #6500-ZPTZ
                                                                                                                                                        5. Paragon, P-702
                                                                                                                                                        6. Paragon, Dusk
                                                                                                                                                        7. Paragon, P-602
                                                                                                                                                        8. Paragon, Orange Peel
EXTERIOR PERSPECTIVE: FRONT ENTRANCE   EXISTING CONDITIONS                                                     8.           9.         10.
                                                                                                                                                        9. Paragon, .76 Trans
                                                                                                                                                        10. Paragon, Cranberry
                                                                                                                                                        11. Sherwin-Williams, Black Fox, SW7020
                                                                                                                                                        12. Glidden, Wright Stone #10YY 30/106
                                                                                                                                                        13. 6" Wide Oak Planks, "Charred" Finish (Rough Sawn
                                                                                                               11.   12.    13.                   14.       & Heat-Treated)
                                                                                                                                                        14. Arcadia, Anodized Alum., #88 Std Dk. Bronze AB-7

                                                                                                               MATERIAL KEY




EXTERIOR PERSPECTIVE: REAR ENTRANCE    EXISTING CONDITIONS
       Exhibit F




6508
Exhibit G
Exhibit H
Exhibit I
Exhibit J
                                                                                     Exhibit K

                               KING'S CASINO, LLC


December 20, 2012


Alison Bermudez
Associate Planner
City of Citrus Heights
6237 Fountain Square Drive
Citrus Heights, CA 95621


Dear Alison:

This letter is in response to your question regarding our plans for Security and
Surveillance. As you may or may not know we are also required by the state
gambling control act to have an evacuation plan and all employees to be trained
in what that plan entails.

The City and Police Department can be sure that the project at Antelope and 80
will continue at the very same level as you now find at the Lucky Derby. My
partners feel as I do that this should and will be one of our priorities. As with the
Lucky Derby security force all of our guards will be armed and trained with all
necessary permits to carry out their duties. Our chief of security will continue, as
he does now, to conduct refresher meetings on a 90 -120 day basis. Our guards
all take Red Cross life saving courses and as you know work closely with the City
Police Dept. when ever asked to do so.

I anticipate that we will have a force in the neighborhood of 15-20 officers. We
have 21 shifts per week with 3 ­ 4 officers on duty per shift. I have briefly
discussed with the chief the possibility of employing off duty on our busiest days
of the week and hours of those days. Nothing has been determined in that
regard but its something we are hopeful can be accomplished.

As far as surveillance is concerned, the Lucky Derby has nearly 75 cameras on
property and I anticipate we will have nearly double that at the new location. they
cover all of the interior as well as exterior. Our digital cameras, dvrs, and
software will be on a par or exceed that of any casino in the state, capable of a
minimum of 15 days storage and available to our police dept at any time.




                 7727 Herschel Avenue  La Jolla  California  92037  (858) 551-4390
                               KING'S CASINO, LLC


Page 2

December 20, 2012



As your aware, the other property that we will have under our control, in addition
to 6510, is the former Albertson's and it's parking. This parcel will well be
patrolled and monitored by surveillance as well. The transient issues that the
neighboring properties now have will be brought under control by our being in the
neighborhood. As our neighbors in the Triangle Shopping Center benefited so
too will those in Summer Hills Shopping Plaza.

Should you require any further information feel free to contact me on my cell at
anytime. We look forward to continuing to work with you and the City.

Sincerely,




Kermit Schayltz, Partner
Kings Casino LLC.




                 7727 Herschel Avenue  La Jolla  California  92037  (858) 551-4390
