                                                                              Staff Report
TO:            Littleton Planning Board

FROM:          Jan Dickinson, Principal Planner

DATE:          May 13, 2013

SUBJECT: Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning from B-2 and R-3 to PD-R,
         2100 W. Littleton Blvd. and 5759 S. Bemis Street



SUMMARY STATEMENT:

The applicant, Alliance Residential Company, is requesting to rezone property, located at the southwest
corner of West Littleton Blvd., and S. Bemis Street. The property is 4.5 acres and presently zoned B-2,
Community Business and R-3, Single Family Residential. The proposal is to rezone the property to PD-
R, Planned Development Residential allowing 300 multiple-family residential units.

The Planning Board must base its recommendation on the consistency of the proposed rezoning with the
pertinent goals and policies of the COMPLAN. In addition, the design guidelines in the Littleton
Boulevard Corridor Study should be used to evaluate the request.

Staff finds the proposal to change the existing commercial zoning to allow only residential land uses at
the proposed scale is in conflict with many of the goals of the COMPLAN. Furthermore, the intensity
and scale of the project is in direct conflict with the adopted design guidelines for the area. Therefore,
staff is recommending denial of the request.

POLICY QUESTION:

Should the city allow conversion of commercially zoned property to residential use at the intensity
proposed by the Planned Development zoning?

BACKGROUND:

Currently, there are two offices buildings on the site (2100 W. Littleton Blvd.) connected by an elevated
walkway. The older building was erected in 1949-50 and served as the headquarters for Intermountain
Rural Electric Association (IREA) for several years. The larger building to the west was constructed in
1975 and connected to the IREA building to serve as Arapahoe County Sherriff's offices in conjunction
with the former county courthouse and jail north of this site. An adjacent single-family residence, 5759
S. Bemis is included under the same ownership. More recently, the owner acquired approximately 1.4
acres west of the office building adjacent to the railroad right-of-way. The entire ownership is
comprised of approximately 4.5 acres.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 2

STAFF ANALYSIS:

The applicant proposes to demolish the existing buildings and construct a multiple-family development
consisting of 300 dwelling units for a total maximum density of 67 units/acre in one multi-story
structure. The parking garage for the residents will be within the interior portion of the structure. The
residential units will wrap around the garage so that it will not be visible from the exterior other than the
garage entrance at the southeast corner of the building. Surface parking in front of the garage entrance
will be provided for guests. Residents will access and leave the site via a new driveway onto S. Bemis
Street at the south end of the site. A 5' wide detached sidewalk and tree lawn will be constructed along
the Bemis Street frontage. A new 10' wide sidewalk will be constructed along Littleton Blvd. retaining
the existing trees along this frontage. A multi-purpose pedestrian path is proposed along the westerly
edge of the site connecting to Littleton Blvd. This path will also serve as emergency access for fire
rescue as it connects to a proposed fire lane at the south side of the building.

The main entry area will be on the east side of the building and will house the leasing office and
clubhouse amenities. A landscaped courtyard north of the garage will include a pool and barbeque
areas. Thirty percent of the site will be open space.

For this project area and request, two levels of policy must be evaluated:

     ·   The Citywide Goals, Sterne Park and Downtown Neighborhood Plan portions of the
         COMPLAN; and

·        The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and Design Guidelines for the Sheriff's Department Site
         (2000 W. Littleton Boulevard).

I.       City's COMPLAN-Community-Wide Goals and Policies:

The proposal is inconsistent with the following pertinent Community-wide goals and policies of the
COMPLAN:

Goal 1: Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing Littleton's
distinct social and economic heritage with consideration given to:

         a.     View preservation
         b.     Landscape preservation
         c.     Topography
         d.     Human Qualities
         e.     Encouragement of variety in housing stock and types of people.

The site prominently overlooks downtown. The proposed building uses the topography of the site to create
additional exposed floors on the west side for a total of six stories, which will be highly visible from
downtown. Staff believes the west elevation of the project will read as a 500 foot long, six story edifice
which will lessen the prominence of the Historic Courthouse on the north side of Littleton Boulevard.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 3

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize downtown as Littleton's economic
        and social center.

While the applicant argues that a 300-unit residential development on the site will economically benefit
the downtown businesses, the existing B-2 zoning would allow office, retail and residential uses in a
mixed-use format. Presently the site hosts 11 businesses and is 100% leased.


Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton
        Residents.

The applicant's justification focuses on providing an attractive and healthful living environment for the
future residents of the development, but does not address the impacts the development may have on the
current and future residents in the nearby neighborhoods. Staff has outlined in this report how the size
and scale of the project is in conflict with various goals of the COMPLAN and design guidelines that
define the community's values of an attractive environment.


Land Use Policy 3: New development in the interior of established neighborhoods, not adjacent to arterial
streets, should respect the existing densities and land uses of the neighborhoods in order that the character is
preserved.

A comment in the COMPLAN regarding this policy states: "New peripheral development, adjacent to
arterials, must include appropriate transitional land use measures." Staff believes that multiple-family
residential is an appropriate transitional use, but one at a lesser scale and building mass would better
preserve the existing character of the neighborhood.

Transportation Policy 2:        Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve
safety and to maintain proper levels of traffic speed and volume.

The Littleton Boulevard Design Guidelines recommend properties on Littleton Boulevard utilize the
intersecting secondary streets, like Bemis Street, for access. The applicant proposes a traffic signal at the
intersection of Bemis and Littleton, and a "No Right Turn" sign on their site to prevent vehicles exiting
the development from traveling south into the neighborhood on Bemis Street. However, added traffic to
Bemis Street is a concern voiced by residents of the Sterne Park neighborhood. Staff believes there are
other solutions to reducing traffic impacts on the neighborhood.

II.     Downtown Neighborhood Plan

Policy LU-10: Development adjacent to the identified iconic structures should respect and not detract
from their prominence. (Staff note: The plan identifies the Courthouse as such a structure)

LU-10a:       Require that the height, scale, building placement, and other design elements of new
construction, expansion, or other property changes respect and do not overwhelm iconic structures.
Employ techniques such as building setbacks and step-backs for upper stories, and further detail that
direction in the Downtown Design Standards and Guidelines.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 4

Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of downtown but immediately adjacent to
downtown gateways should be planned with consideration of their proximity to downtown and their
potential role and impact on downtown. The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton
Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo Street/Santa Fe Drive, Prince Street/Santa Fe Drive, and the Downtown
Littleton light rail station.

LU-12a: Plan new developments immediately adjacent to downtown gateways so that they improve
connections to downtown, function as part of a gateway to downtown, follow the same design standards,
and are consistent with the Downtown Neighborhood Plan.

Staff believes that the scale of the proposed building will visually diminish the historic courthouse in
conflict with the intent of these policies. Furthermore, the proposal conflicts with the design
guidelines in the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study.

III.   Sterne Park Neighborhood

Neighborhood Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life"
aspects, especially the mix of architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential
areas.

The scale of the proposed structure is an anomaly to the neighborhood. Traffic loading on Bemis
Street will not help preserve the character or the quiet atmosphere of the adjacent existing residential
area.

Neighborhood Goal 2:         Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent
necessary to improve safety and to provide good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.

Transportation Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained
or improved to improve safety and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.

The applicant states that the project will comply with the above policy because they propose to install a
"No Right Turn" sign on their site to prevent vehicles exiting the development from traveling south into
the neighborhood on Bemis Street. Since this restriction will be difficult to enforce, staff believes this will
not be a viable solution for the neighborhood.

Land Use Policy 2: That emphasis in the decision-making process be placed on the preservation of the
neighborhood as a sound, desirable residential area.

When considering redevelopment on this site, compliance with the development guidelines in the
Littleton Corridor Boulevard Study will assure preservation of the neighborhood's qualities. Staff
believes that this proposal conflicts with many of the study's guidelines relating to building height
and scale, which will negatively affect the neighborhood
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 5

IV.       Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study Design Guidelines for Sheriff's Site and Community
          Center Site (Littleton Station)


The building form proposed on the PD Plan conflicts with the following guidelines:

      ·   1C1 Massing/Height/Scale

      ·   1C1.2 Building form next to Littleton Blvd. and Bemis Street should be a maximum of three
          stories, stepping up in height away from the street.

While the setback standards show portions of the façade along Littleton Blvd. to step back above the
third story, the conceptual building elevations and section drawings indicate several sections of the
façade at four to six stories at the 10' setback from the street. The proposed setback along Bemis
Street require only a 7' step back above the third story for the fourth story. Staff does not believe that
the proposed setback and step back standards meet the above guideline.

      ·   1C3 Architectural Character

Goal 1: The architectural character should complement the existing historic architecture of this subarea.
Goal 2: To create buildings that provide human scale, interest and variation.
   · 1C3.1 All buildings should be designed specially for the context and character of the area.
   · 1C3.2 The buildings should possess an architectural character that reinforces the historic
       character of the existing buildings in this area.

From previous versions of the proposed plans, the east façade along Bemis is now divided up more
effectively to reduce the linear scale of the building and better relate to the single- family homes
across the street. However, the overall proposal of five and six stories even with upper story step
backs conflicts with the intent of this guideline. The building sections shown on the perspectives
demonstrate that the building ranging from four to six stories will not defer in height to the
Courthouse across the street, potentially lessening the prominence of the Courthouse itself. The 5-
story building grows to six stories along the westerly edge sloping downward to the railroad.

      ·   1C6 Rooftop
      ·   1C6.1 Sloped roofs are preferred over flat roofs.

The entire building will be flat roof, though other recent projects (Littleton Station located one block
east) has a flat roof.

      ·   2A1 Building Relationships Goal: To present an attractive west façade to the light rail station
          and downtown.

This site may be one of the most visible to residents and visitors to downtown. The perspective of the
west elevation, though conceptual, shows a wall, five to six stories in height and approximately 500
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 6

feet in length. The massiveness and height of this building in this highly visible location does not
meet the intent of this goal.

   ·   2C1 Massing and Height

       Goals: To reflect the scale and height of the adjacent neighborhood and historic courthouse.
       To maintain a two to three story edge to Littleton Blvd, particularly along the south side to
       provide more sun exposure to the street.




                                                                                     From page 10 of
                                                                                     Littleton Boulevard
                                                                                     Design Guidelines




   ·   2C1.1: Higher building forms should be located at the southwest and west portions of the site
       stepping down toward Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street. No building shall exceed the height
       of the courthouse, 81 feet. (Staff note: The cupola is 81 feet while the larger mass of the building
       is shorter).

   ·   2C1.2: The building (s) along Bemis Street should respect the scale and pattern of the houses
       across the street through such design strategies as the articulation of building form, column/pier
       spacing, window pattern, and similar approaches.

While the plan proposes floor step backs, the building facades along Bemis and Littleton Blvd. will be
taller than 2-3 stories and large portions of the building will be 5 and 6 stories. The historic
courthouse must remain the dominant form in this view. Staff believes the scale of the proposed
western edifice will overpower the importance of the courthouse as a Littleton icon (see Downtown
Neighborhood Plan).
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 7


     ·   Development Catalyst Sites (Folded Map)
         Arapahoe County Sheriff's Facility

This paragraph reinforces that the "scale of any new development on this site should complement the
scale of the Historic Courthouse on the north side of Littleton Boulevard". Also, the guidelines
recommend medium density residential as a proposed use, though it is not defined. Staff believes the
scale of the proposed structure does not complement the scale of the courthouse.

LEGAL OPINION:

The City Attorney has reviewed the attached resolution and approved it as to form.

REFERRAL PROCESS:

The application materials were distributed to various city staff for review such as engineering, fire,
police, and public works. In addition, 18 outside agencies received the application for review. Six
agencies responded. The applicant's responses to the comments are included in the attached materials
provided by the applicant.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS:

Staff feels the request is not consistent with the COMPLAN and the mass and height of the proposed
building does not meet the intent of the corridor study. Staff recommends denial of the proposal.

If Planning Board chooses to approve the request, staff recommends that the Planning Board direct the
City Attorney to prepare a resolution recommending approval of the rezoning with the following
changes to the general planned development plan:

1.       Installation of the traffic signal at Bemis and Littleton Blvd. shall be at the developer's sole
         expense and coordination with other required improvements per the Public Works Dirctor.
2.       The recommendations from sound mitigation study dated 9/20/12 shall be implemented.
3.       Developer shall expand the width of the sidewalk along the bridge over the railroad depression at
         Alamo Avenue to accommodate increased pedestrian use as approved by the Public Works
         Director.

PROPOSED MOTION:


I move that Planning Board Resolution No. 13-03 be approved, which forwards a recommendation of
denial to the City Council on said proposed rezoning.
Littleton Planning Board
Broadstone at Littleton Station Rezoning
May 13, 2013
Page 8

Attachments:

1.     Area Reference Map
2.     Planning Board Resolution No. 13-03
3.     Letters from citizens
4.     Application and attachments
5.     Broadstone at Littleton Station Planned Development Plan
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 13-03

                                          Series of 2013

               A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING BOARD OF THE CITY
               OF LITTLETON, COLORADO, RECOMMENDING DENIAL
               OF A REQUEST TO REZONE PROPERTY KNOWN AS 2100
               WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD FROM B-2 COMMUNITY
               BUSINESS AND PROPERTY KNOWN AS 5759 SOUTH
               BEMIS STREET FROM R-3 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
               TO PD-R PLANNED DEVELOPMENT RESIDENTIAL
               DISTRICT.

                 WHEREAS, the Planning Board of the City of Littleton, Colorado, held a public
hearing at its regular meeting of May 13, 2013 to consider a proposal to rezone from B-2 and R-3 to
PD-R property located at 2100 West Littleton Boulevard and 5759 South Bemis Street, respectfully
and more specifically described in Exhibit "A", which is attached hereto and made a part hereof by
this reference;

                WHEREAS, the Planning Board considered the proposed general planned
development plan, Broadstone at Littleton Station General Planned Development Plan, for property
located in the Southwest One-Quarter of Section 16, Township 5 South, Range 68 West of the Sixth
P.M., Arapahoe County, State of Colorado; and

              WHEREAS, the Planning Board considered evidence and testimony concerning the
proposed rezoning and general planned development plan at said public hearing.

            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE PLANNING BOARD OF THE
CITY OF LITTLETON, COLORADO, THAT:

                Section 1.     The Planning Board finds that the proposal to rezone the property
described on the attached Exhibit "A," to multiple-family residential at the proposed scale is
inconsistent the development guidelines of the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and the following
goals and policies of the COMPLAN: Community-wide Goals 1, 2 and 7; Community-wide Land
Use Policy 3; Community-wide Transportation 2; Downtown Neighborhood Plan Land Use Policies
LU-10, LU-10a, LU-12, and LU-12a.; Sterne Park Neighborhood Goals 1 and 2; Sterne Park
Neighborhood Transportation Policy 1 and Land Use Policy 2. Furthermore, the Planning Board
finds that the proposed multiple-family development at this location and at the proposed scale does
not promote the general welfare of the community because it is inconsistent with the surrounding
neighborhood and nearby iconic, historic courthouse; causes traffic impacts on adjacent
neighborhood and eliminates the possibility of an efficient mixed-use development on the site.

               Section 2.     The Planning Board does hereby forward a recommendation of denial
to the City Council on said proposed rezoning and general planned development plan.
Resolution No. 13-03
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 2

INTRODUCED, READ AND ADOPTED at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board

of the City of Littleton, Colorado, held on the 13th day of May, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Littleton

Center, 2255 West Berry Avenue, Littleton, Colorado, by the following vote:

AYES:

NAYS:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:                                       APPROVED:

BY: __________________________                _____________________________________

Glen Van Nimwegen, Secretary                  Randy Duzan, Chair

Approved as to form:

______________________________
City Attorney
Resolution No. 13-03
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 3


                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
                           PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                      EXHIBIT "A"

                                Rezoning from B-2 to PD-R


PARCEL 1:
LOT 1, BLOCK 1,
INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE,
STATE OF COLORADO.
PARCEL CONTAINS (128,249 SQUARE FEET) 2.9442 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.


PARCEL4:
A PARCEL OF GROUND IN THE CITY OF LITTLETON, ARAPAHOE COUNTY,
LOCATED SOUTH OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR WEST LITTLETON
BOULEVARD, EAST OF A VERTICAL WALL CONSTRUCTED ON BNSF RAILWAY
COMPANY PROPERTY, APPROXIMATELY 10 FEET EAST OF THE CENTERLINE OF
THE MOST EASTERLY TRACKS, NORTH OF THE PROLONGATION OF THE SOUTH
LINE OF LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION PLATTED IN THE
RECORDS OF SAID COUNTY AND WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF SAID LOT 1 IN THE
SW 1/4 SW 1/4, OF SECTION 16, T. 5 S., R 68 W., 6TH P.M., DESCRIBED AS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1; THENCE ALONG THE
SOUTH LINE OF SAID PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD
THROUGH THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES:

N 90°00'00" W (S8947'10"W), 48.70 FEET ANDS 61°15'14" W (S6102'24"W), 148.06 FEET
TO SAID WALL; THENCE S 24°28'06" W (S2415'18"W), ALONG SAID WALL, 359.37
FEET TO SAID PROLONGATION; THENCE S 74°59'30" E (S7512'20.E)ALONG SAID
PROLONGATION, 152.01 FEET TO THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1;
THENCE N 2225'00" E (N2212'10"E), ALONG SAID WEST LINE, 473.44 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.

COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO.

BEARINGS IN PARENTHESES ARE PER FIELD SURVEY.
PARCEL CONTAINS (61,313 SQUARE FEET) 1.4076 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
Resolution No. 13-03
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 4


                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
                           PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                EXHIBIT "A" (continued)

                                Rezoning from R-3 to PD-R



PARCEL 2:
A PARCEL OF LAND IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHWEST
QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 5 SOUTH, RANGE 68 WEST OF THE 6TH
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO, MORE
PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
COMMENCING AT A POINT OF INTERSECTION OF THE SOUTH LINE OF WEST
LITTLETON BOULEVARD AND THE WEST LINE OF SOUTH BEMIS STREET; THENCE
SOUTH (S0012'10"W) 390 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING; THENCE WEST
(S89°47'10"W) 125 FEET; THENCE SOUTH (S00°12'10"W) 49 FEET; THENCE EAST
(N89°47'10"E) 125 FEET TO A POINT ON THE WEST LINE OF SOUTH BEMIS STREET;
THENCE NORTH (N00°12'10"E) 49 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING,
COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF COLORADO.

PARCEL CONTAINS (6,125 SQUARE FEET) 0.1406 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
Resolution No. 13-03
Littleton City Planning Board
Page 5

                         BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
                           PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                EXHIBIT "A" (continued)

                                Overall Legal Description




A PARCEL OF LAND BEING LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION
(RECEPTION NUMBER 1465740), AND A PART OF THE SW1/4 OF SECTION 16, T.5S.,
R.68W., OF THE 6TH P.M., CITY OF LITTLETON, COUNTY OF ARAPAHOE, STATE OF
COLORADO, AND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 1, BLOCK 1, INTERMOUNTAIN
SUBDIVISION; THENCE S0012'10"W ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 1AND
ALONG THE EAST LINE OF A PARCEL OF LAND DESCRIBED IN DEED RECORDED
AT RECEPTION NUMBER B8066096, AND ALONG THE WEST R.O.W LINE OF SOUTH
BEMIS STREET, A DISTANCE OF 439.00 FEET; THENCE S8947'10"W ALONG THE
SOUTH LINE OF SAID PARCEL, A DISTANCE OF 125.00 FEET;
THENCE S0012'10"W ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 1,A DISTANCE OF 65.66
FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 1;
THENCE N7512'20"W ALONG THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 1 AND
ALONG THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE EXTENDED AS DESCRIBED IN DEED
RECORDED AT RECEPTION NUMBER B6096785, A DISTANCE OF 411.43 FEET TO A
POINT ON A VERTICAL WALL; THENCE N2415'18"E ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE
OF SAID PARCEL AND ALONG SAID VERTICAL WALL, A DISTANCE OF 359.37 FEET
TO A POINT ON THE SOUTH R.O.W LINE OF WEST LITTLETON BOULEVARD;
THENCE N6102'24"E ALONG SAID SOUTH RO.W. LINE, A DISTANCE OF 148.06 FEET;
THENCE N8947'10"E ALONG SAID SOUTH RO.W. LINE AND ALONG THE NORTH
LINE OF SAID LOT 1,A DISTANCE OF 247.40 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
PARCEL CONTAINS (195,688 SQUARE FEET) 4.4924 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
LETTERS SUBMITTED BY CITIZENS
APPLICATION MATERIALS PROVIDED
    BY ALLIANCE RESIDENTIAL
PROPOSED ZONING COMPARISON CHART:
Zoning Requirements Existing Zoning District                                      Proposed Zoning Dist.
Uses                Various Per B-2, Single family detached in R-3                Multifamily Residential
Min. Open Space     20% B-2, 50% R-3                                              35%
Parking Ratios      Various Per B-2, 2 per dwelling unit in R-3                   1.5 per unit
Min. Bldg Setbacks  0' B-2, 20' R-3                                               Varies 10'-75'
Max. Bldg Height    Not Limited for B-2, 30' for R-3                              59'
Max. F.A.R.         2:1 for B-2 and N/A for R-3                                   N/A
Max. Density        N/A for B-2, 6.7/acre                                         68/acre

1. PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS:

Under the existing zoning district for the B-2 parcel (2100 and 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.), Alliance would
propose a 5-story, 100% commercial building. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

Building Calculations:
76,000 SF x 8 stories = 380,000 SF
14,000 SF of retail
156,000 SF of office
210,000 SF of parking (603 spaces total or approx. 120 per floor)

Projected parking requirement: 590 spaces
Retail - one space per 200 SF = 70 spaces
Office - one space per 300 SF = 520 spaces

Projected population: 906 employees
906 employees = 150 SF per employee at 80% building efficiency (170,000 x 80% = 136,000/150)

Projected population of school-age children: N/A

Traffic generation: 2,835 daily vehicle trips
2,835 daily vehicle trips (750 trips per 45,000 SF of office space (170,000/45,000 = 3.78 x 750) ***

Additional park land required: N/A

Availability of services:
Based on the SF of our proposed development under the B-2 zoning scenario, we would anticipate an 8"
sewer tap and a 3" water tap.

2. Under the existing zoning district for the R-2 parcel (5759 S. Bemis St.), Alliance would keep the
existing building, a single family residence. Under that scenario, the following set of data would be
projected:

Projected population: 3

Projected population of school-age children: 1
Traffic generation: 3.55 daily vehicle trips
3.55 X 1 = 3.55 daily vehicle trips

Additional park land required: $0
Since Alliance would not do anything with the R-3 lot, there would be no park impact fees generated.

Availability of services: N/A

3. Under the proposed PD - residential zone district (the combined B-2 and R-3 parcels), Alliance is
proposing a 300 unit, 4 and 5 story apartment building with an internal above-grade parking structure.
Under that scenario, the following set of data would be projected:

Building Calculations:
55,200 SF x 5 = 276,000 SF
276,000/920 average unit size = 300 units

Projected parking requirements: 450
300 units x 1.5 = 450 residential parking spaces

Projected population: 550 residents
300 units x 39% = 117 1 bedrooms averaging 1.5 individuals per unit
300 units x 58% = 174 2 bedrooms averaging 2 individual per unit
300 units x 3% = 9 3 bedrooms averaging 3 individuals per unit

Projected population of school-age children: 87 school age children
.29 x 300 = 87

Traffic generation: 1,065 daily vehicle trips
3.55 x 300 = 1,065 daily vehicle trips

Additional park land required: $765,000
The city code requires payment of park fees in the amount of $2,550 per unit for multifamily residential.
Under our proposed scenario, we would play $2,550 x 300 units. This money would go toward park
improvements throughout the City of Littleton. During our rezoning application process we hope to
reduce the total amount of park fees by enhancing the floodplain land to the south of our project. We
are also planning on adding a trail to the west of our property, which would serve as a connection to the
trail planned to the north and south of our project. We believe there are several ways we could improve
the open space land adjacent to our property in the hopes of offsetting the park fee, and we look
forward to discussing those options with you.

Availability of city services:
Based on the SF of our development under the proposed PD Residential zoning scenario, we would
anticipate an 8" sewer tap and a 3" water tap.
*Obrinksy, Ph. D Mark and Stein, Debra. NMHC White Papers "Overcoming Opposition to Mutlifamily
Rental Housing", 2007.

** Transit Cooperative Research Program, TCRP Report 128, Effects of TOD Housing, Population, and
Travel, 2008.

*** Edwards, Mary. Traffic Impact Analysis, Community Guide to Development Impact Analysis.
                                                                              ZONING COMPARISON CHART - BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION
DETAILS                                       EXISTING                                                                EXISTING                         PROPOSED
ADDRESS                                       2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd.                                          5759 S. Bemis Street             Area including 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Blvd. & 5759 S. Bemis Street
ACERAGE                                       2.94                                                                    0.14                             4.5
ZONING                                        B-2 EXISTING ZONING                                                     R-3 EXISTING ZONING              PROPOSED PD PLAN RESIDENTIAL
USES ALLOWED                                  Per B-2, Residential, Commercial, Retail Mix                            Single Family Detached           Multifamily Residential with potential for a small 1,100 SF Café
MINIMUM OPEN SPACE                            20%                                                                     50%                              35%
PARKING RATIO                                 Various Per B-2                                                         2 Per Dwelling unit              1.5 Per Dwelling Unit
MINIMUM SET BACK                              0 Feet                                                                  20 Feet                          Varies between 10 Feet and 75 Feet
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT                       Not limited by zone district                                            30 Feet                          59 Feet
MAXIMUM FAR                                   2.00                                                                    N/A                              N/A
MAXIMUM DENSITY                               N/A                                                                     6.7                              68
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT                          5-story commercial office building                                      no change to existing building   Market Rate Apartment Building
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT DETAILS                  100% commercial                                                         single family detached home      300 Unit Luxury Multifamily Apartment Community
PROJECTED PARKING REQUIREMENT                 590 spaces                                                              2 spaces                         450 spaces
PROJECTED POPULATION                          906 employees                                                           3 residents                      550 residents
PROJECTED POPULATION OF SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN   N/A                                                                     1 child                          87 children
TRAFFIC GENERATED                             2,835 daily vehicle trips                                               3.55 daily vehicle trips         1,065 daily vehicle trips
ADDITIONAL PARK LAND REQUIRED                 N/A                                                                     $0                               $765,000
AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES                      8" sewer tap and 3" water tap                                           N/A                              8" sewer tap and 3" water tap
                                BROADSTONE AT LITTLETON STATION PD PLAN REZONING
                                               Case No. PDP12-0003
                                                 February 11, 2013


                                         Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning

The Declaration of Public Policy for Rezoning states that the official zoning map should not be amended unless the
amendment is consistent with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promotes the general welfare of
the community. Alliance's request to rezone the 4.5 acres site known as 2100 & 2120 W. Littleton Boulevard (currently
zoned B-2 Commercial Business) and 5759 S Bemis Street (currently zoned as R-3 Residential) to a Residential use
Planned Development will uphold the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, and promote the general welfare of
the community in the following ways:

Community-Wide Goals & Policies of the Comprehensive Plan
Goal 1: Preserve Littleton's unique identity by protecting historic structures and emphasizing Littleton's distinct social and
economic heritage with consideration giving to: view preservation, landscape preservation, topography, human qualities,
and encouragement of variety of housing stock and types of people.
MEETS GOAL. The planned "Class A" multifamily apartment community will emphasize Littleton's distinct social and
economic heritage with consideration given to encouragement of variety in housing stock and types of people. The
development will attract young professionals, emerging families, and empty nesters with a unit mix of 46% one-
bedrooms, 51% two-bedrooms and 3% three-bedrooms. Located at the corner of West Littleton Boulevard and South
Bemis Street, the intent will be to construct a high-end, thoughtfully designed building that can serve as a "gateway" to
Historic Downtown Littleton. This gateway condition will complement the historic courthouse building adding balance
that appropriately frames downtown Littleton. The rezoning application includes parameters that will produce a
finished product comparable to what Alliance has built in comparable locations within the Denver Metro Area.

Goal 2: Develop Littleton's economic independence and reemphasize downtown as Littleton's economic and social center.
 MEETS GOAL. A 300-unit residential apartment community within walking distance to Historic Main Street will develop
Littleton's economic dependence and reemphasize downtown as Littleton's economic and social center. Future
residents will dine, shop, and enjoy entertainment in downtown Littleton. Approximately 600 residents of a target
demographic with statistically higher discretionary income will walk the short 500 feet distance to Historic Downtown
Littleton to support the local business community without adding a burden to local parking. Additionally, current zoning
would require retail/commercial space that could diminish downtown Littleton as an economic and social center.

Goal 3: Provide adequate public transportation, both within Littleton itself and as links to other communities in the
metropolitan area.
MEETS GOAL. The proximity of the site to the Downtown Littleton light rail station will encourage use of public
transportation among residents. Rather than traveling via car, our residents will be able to take advantage of the
convenience of the light rail station when commuting to other communities within the metropolitan area or traveling
within Littleton itself. The Regional Demand Analysis & TOD Market Analysis produced by the City of Denver in 2008
forecasted the average household per station along the southwest corridor would be 765 between 2005 and 2030.
Station areas along the Southeast and Central lines have exceeded initial baseline projections due to land availability
within the station areas. Due to lack of developable land within station areas the Southwest line has yet to approach
densities anywhere near the projected demand. While 700 units at Littleton Station may not be attainable, this
application provides an opportunity to increase density at this station in a strategic and effective way.




                                                                                                                  1|Page
Goal 4: Acquire and maintain sufficient park, recreation land, open space and trails to maintain a proper balance
between developed and recreational land use and to make recreational opportunities easily available to all residents.
MEETS GOAL. Our site will provide not less than 25% unobstructed open space, but will also contain a trail connection
on the land adjacent to the west elevation of our building ensuring recreational opportunities are easily available to all
residents. The intent is for the trail running on our property to link up with the proposed trail that parallel to the east of
the rail road tracks. During the development process Alliance will also work with the City to pursue ways to enhance a
portion of the floodplain for recreational use enjoyed by all residents in the area. Residents of our proposed project will
also enjoy easily available recreational opportunities provided by the Douglas H. Buck Recreation center located just
north of the property on W. Powers Avenue.

Goal 5: Preserve existing neighborhood values while encouraging any new development to make the most efficient use of
land, resulting in the highest possible standard of living and the best use of natural resources.
MEETS GOAL. The building design will take into account the most efficient use of the 4.5 acre site. The parking structure
will be completed enclosed by the building and therefore not visible from the street. Other design elements that will
result in the highest possible standard of living and best use of natural resources includes; providing historic views,
mountain views, horizontal emphasis, and interface of indoor and outdoor spaces. The proposed project will also
preserve existing neighborhood values sited in the Sterne Park Neighborhood plan, which will be expanded upon later in
this narrative. LEED certification from the USGBC will insure the community is designed to be durable and
environmentally sustainable.

Goal 6: Reduce community and individual property loss from flooding through better storm drainage planning and
improvement of existing drainage facilities.
MEETS GOAL. The proposed project will capture the site runoff and convey the runoff to a central water quality pond.
Runoff from the water quality pond will be released to the existing storm drain facilities adjacent to the site. Alliances'
team has worked closely with the City of Littleton Engineering to control the storm release, so that runoff from the
proposed development passes through the adjacent storm facilities prior to the peak flow time of concentration within
the adjacent facilities.

Goal 7: Promote and maintain an attractive and healthful living environment for present and future Littleton residents.
MEETS GOAL. Residents at the proposed project will be able to enjoy an attractive and healthful living environment.
They will have access to historic downtown Littleton for shopping and entertainment; will be encouraged to utilize the
public transportation as they will be in walking distance to the Downtown Littleton light rail station and bus stop.
Additionally, residents will be close to ample outdoor space for their recreational enjoyment given the proximity to
Sterne Park and the S. Platte River Trail system. It is our hope that residents of the proposed property will one day
purchase homes or condos in Littleton.

Goal 8: Encourage prudent conservation measures that will project and assure Littleton's air, water, energy, and land
resources for the future.
MEETS GOAL. The proposed project will be LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified and will
incorporate the latest design goals to ensure sustainable development. Participation in the LEED process demonstrates
leadership, innovation, environmental stewardship, and social responsibility. LEED provides building owners with the
tools they need to immediately impact their buildings performance and bottom line, while providing healthy indoor
spaces for a building's occupants. LEED certified buildings are designed to reduce waste sent to landfills, conserve
energy and water, be healthier and safer for occupants, and reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions.

Housing Policies
Policy 6: Prohibit discrimination in housing by continuing to enforce fair housing laws.
MEETS POLICY. Alliance Residential Company adheres to all fair housing laws with all staff engaged in continuing
education requirements.



                                                                                                                  2|Page
Policy 11: Encourage known energy efficient construction techniques in all types of housings.
MEETS POLICY. The proposed development will be LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) and will
incorporate the latest design goals to ensure a sustainable, energy efficient development.

Land Use Policies
Policy 8: Environmentally sensitive areas, such as floodplain, steep slopes, etc., shall be protected from development in
order to prevent adverse effect to these areas.
DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH POLICY. The floodplain to the south of the site will remain protected from the development.

Policy 9: The City shall continue to encourage that energy and environmental concerns be taken into consideration with
all new residential and commercial developments.
MEETS POLICY. The proposed project will be LEED certified and will incorporate the latest design goals to ensure a
sustainable, energy efficient development.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls to provide safe and efficient traffic circulation.
MEETS POLICY. It is believed that with the addition of the proposed project, warrants may be met to install a traffic
signal at the corner of W. Littleton Boulevard and S. Bemis Street. During both of our meetings with the neighborhood,
residents voiced concerns regarding how dangerous it is to try and cross Littleton Boulevard at S. Bemis Street. The
majority of feedback received was how residents would welcome a traffic signal, which would make the intersection
much safer and improve traffic circulation.

Policy 2: Provide traffic controls on internal residential and collector streets to improve safety and to maintain proper
levels of traffic speed and volume.
MEETS POLICY. Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City
to install a No Right Turn sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and
head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling
south on S. Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development.

Policy 5: Limit direct access on arterial streets to preserve the safety and traffic carrying capabilities of these roadways.
MEETS POLICY. See response to Policy 2.

Urban Design Policies
Policy 4: The City should strengthen the identity of entrances into Littleton.
MEETS POLICY. The northwest corner of the proposed project could serve as an additional gateway element to welcome
residents to Downtown Littleton.

Downtown Neighborhood Plan
Policy LU-12: Development in areas that are outside of downtown but immediately adjacent to downtown gateways
should be planned with consideration of their proximity to downtown and their potential role and impact on downtown.
The four gateways are located at Main Street/Littleton Boulevard, Main Street/Alamo/Santa Fe Drive, Prince
Street/Santa Fe Drive, and Downtown Littleton light rail station.
MEETS POLICY. The project is anticipated to have a very positive economic impact upon Downtown Littleton. The
infusion of hundreds of new residents with disposable income within close walking proximity to Downtown will create
energy and economic vitality. It is crucial that a safe pedestrian and bike connection be provided between this project
and Downtown. To this end, a traffic signal will be added at the corner of Littleton Blvd and Bemis St. In conjunction with
Public Works, widening of the narrow sidewalk on the Alamo Ave bridge will also be explored. Architecturally speaking,
it is vital that a proud and highly articulated building mass act as a gateway element announcing Downtown. But it is also
vital that the importance of the historic Courthouse not be diminished. So a balanced approach is being pursued
wherein the northeast corner near the Courthouse will have a subdued mass, whereas the northwest corner that is
away from the Courthouse but nearer to Downtown shall have a proud presence and act as a gateway. And finally, it is
                                                                                                                   3|Page
important that the project present itself well from the eastward vista from Downtown. A tall highly articulated and well-
lit element will provide a culmination to the view from eastbound Alamo Avenue.

Sterne Park Neighborhood Goals
Goal 1: Preserve the unique character of the neighborhood and general "quality of life" aspects, especially the mix of
architectural styles, mature trees, and quiet atmosphere of the residential areas.
MEETS GOAL. The building design will take into account the existing architectural styles and quiet atmosphere of the
residential area. The elevation fronting Bemis Street will step back after the third floor to respond to the adjacent
residential area. This in turn will create a pedestrian feel, look, and relationship to the neighboring residences. Walkout
residences on the first floor along Bemis, Littleton Boulevard, and the west side of the building will additionally establish
a pedestrian scale and feel. The project will have an 8 foot tree lawn on the east side of S. Bemis Street. To the greatest
extent possible, we will preserve mature trees on the property or replace any trees that must be removed during
construction. Our property management team will be on site or on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to prevent noise
violations per the City of Littleton's regulations on that matter. Additionally, the interior courtyard will reduce noise
impact on Bemis neighbors.

Goal 2: Improve transportation facilities and traffic controls only to the extent necessary to improve safety and to provide
good traffic circulation within the neighborhood.
MEETS GOAL. A traffic study was conducted which will address traffic controls and provide recommendations to
improve traffic circulation within the neighborhood. It is expected that this development will help Bemis Street meet
warrants to install a 3 way traffic signal which is welcomed by the residents. The improved safety of the Bemis/W.
Littleton intersection would also encourage more residents west of the development to walk downtown, rather than
take their cars to avoid the difficult and sometimes dangerous intersection. We have positioned the entry/exit into our
parking garage well to the south of the W. Littleton Boulevard with the hopes that there will be enough space on S.
Bemis Street to accommodate everyone leaving the garage to turn left and head north on S. Bemis Street

Goal 3: Prohibit encroachment of commercial uses into established residential areas by limiting such uses to existing
commercial districts such as Littleton Boulevard.
DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH GOAL. A rezoning application has been submitted to allow for residential use on a site that
was zoned for both residential (5759 Bemis) and B-2 commercial (2100 and 2120 W Littleton).

Goal 4: Preserve existing parks and open space and encourage new or expanded recreational areas to be developed to
provide natural, passive recreation opportunities.
DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH GOAL. There are not any existing parks and open space on the current site. There is a large
flood plain to the south of the site, which will remain. However, we would like to propose improved access to the flood
plain land as a potential way to offset our park impact fees, so residents and neighbors may better enjoy the open space.

Goal 5: Improve enforcement of the City's environmental codes to assure neighborhood preservation through good
maintenance, adherence to noise ordinance, and crime prevention.
MEETS GOAL. Alliance Residential will not only develop and build the project, but will manage the project upon
completion. Alliance is the 15th largest management company in the U.S. and our size is a testament to our scope and
depth of industry knowledge. The on-site staff will monitor and oversee the continued maintenance of the property. We
can ensure adherence to noise ordinances through our lease agreements and prior to signing a lease, all potential
residents must pass the necessary background and credit checks.

Transportation Policies
Policy 1: That traffic controls in internal residential and collector streets be maintained or improved to improve safety
and to prevent further increases in speed and volume of traffic.
MEETS POLICY. Feedback from the neighborhood residents has caused us to pursue the option of working with the City
to install a No Right Turn sign when exiting our proposed parking garage so residents would be forced to turn left and


                                                                                                                 4|Page
head north to W. Littleton Boulevard. This would help assure the local neighborhood that traffic volume of cars traveling
south on S. Bemis Street would not dramatically increase due to our proposed development.

Land Policies
Policy 1: That development of commercial uses south of Littleton Boulevard, beyond that which is presently zoned
commercial, in residential areas of the neighborhood, be prohibited.
DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH POLICY. The site is currently zoned B2 and R-3 residential and we are requesting a residential
use Planned Development.

Code Enforcement Policies
Policy 1:That the environmental code adopted by the City, which requires land owners to maintain the landscaping on
rental property, including renter-occupied, single-family dwellings, be strongly enforced to preserve the well-maintained
character of the neighborhood and to protect adjacent property owners from adverse impacts of poor maintenance.
MEETS POLICY. Alliance Residential Company's management team will have maintenance staff on site 7 days a week to
ensure the property is well maintained. In addition, a professional landscaping company will be hired to provide ongoing
landscaping upkeep of the property.

Policy 2: That a concerted, intensified effort should be taken to control vandalism.
MEETS POLICY. Alliance Residential Company will have property management staff on site during regular business
hours. After regular business hours, a security guard will monitor the site. As a courtesy patrol, Alliance will also offer a
free or discounted unit to one or two local police officers who can live on site and assist with security. The property will
also have access control key fobs, alarm systems, and video monitoring.

COMPLIANCE WITH PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Intent: The Planned Development District (PD) District is hereby created to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare by allowing more flexible development, based upon a comprehensive, integrated plan. For the
purpose of applying certain regulations and standards, and to insure maximum flexibility, the PD District is divided
into subdistrict designations, listed below, based on the primary land use on all or a portion of the land covered by a
general PD Plan. By creating these subdistricts, the Council recognizes that all standards and regulations do not apply
uniformly to all land uses. These subdistricts may exist singly or in combination on any approved general PD Plan,
provided that the specific standards and regulations applicable to the respective subdistricts are met.

Application and Intent: Further, in the application of this Section it is the intent of Council to:
1. Encourage more creative and effective use of land and public or private services, and to accommodate changes in land
development technology so that the resulting economies benefit the community.
The proposed project and our associated park fees will encourage the City to enhance the flood plain to the south of the
site. The flood plain is an area of land that would greatly benefit from a more creative and effective use. It is our hope
that park-like enhancements will allow local residents to better enjoy the flood plain area. Additionally, we are
proposing a trail connection through the flood plain to connect residents to the regional trail which will run parallel to
the train tracks and through the west portion of our site. We want to capitalize on the sites great proximity to the
Littleton Light Rail Station and encourage pedestrian connectivity to the greatest extent possible. Our innovative
construction technology will allow us to conceal almost all parking except for a small fraction of visitor and prospective
resident parking. We will accommodate changes in land development technology by building to US Green Building
Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification at the Gold level. This results in
operating efficiencies for energy and resource usage including water, electricity and gas ultimately minimizing the
burden on City infrastructure. It represents a minimum of 15% improved energy efficiency over typical development
standards. It also requires subcontractor training for waste recycling and material installation among many other
details. Final certification is based on construction documentation and commissioning of major operating systems by
third party consultant.



                                                                                                                 5|Page
2. Encourage innovation and efficiency in residential development to meet the growing demands for housing of all types
and designs for persons of any social or economic status.
Our project will have a mix of one, two and three bedroom units. Operating efficiencies of the LEED construction system
will reduce operating expenses allowing luxury apartments at a premium location to be within the price range of
teachers, administrative staff, as well as doctors, aerospace engineers, defense contractors and retired empty nesters.
Alliance Residential Company is committed to full compliance with Fair Housing laws which prohibit discrimination in
housing because of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status and disability. Alliance also complies with
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities.
Reasonable is defined as: modifications to an apartment home or common area at the resident's expense if the
modification is necessary for the disabled person to enjoy use of the apartment home and community. Where it is
reasonable, the manager of the apartment community may permit modification and changes to be made if the disabled
person agrees to restore the property to its original condition upon leaving the property. Examples of such modifications
would be the installation of handrails or special door-opening devices, the installation of special signal devices to assist a
hearing impaired person, or the reservation of a handicapped parking space for a person who must use a wheelchair for
mobility.

3. Encourage innovative development or redevelopment of all land uses to meet the contemporary needs of the
community by providing for a greater variety and mix of uses including those which may coexist on the same parcel or
within the same building as shown on an approved PD Plan.
The intent of this project is to bring a concentration of new customers to the existing Downtown Littleton businesses
without adding vehicular traffic. This higher density could encourage more diverse businesses on Main Street such as
specialty grocers or markets. However, residents are provided with many onsite amenities for convenience and
recreation including:
  * Resort-style swimming pool and spa with outdoor tables, seating and garden lighting
  * Commercial grade outdoor bbq grills in garden courtyard
  * Indoor/outdoor rooftop observatory lounge providing all residents access to the spectacular mountain and night sky
views
  * Indoor Wi-Fi/media cafe with 24 hour access to printing, coffee, tea and fresh water providing a social environment
to residents who work from home
  * Large conference room with multimedia presentation capabilities providing a professional environment for
residents who work from home
  * Large commercial grade fitness center with 24 hour access including free weights, yoga/pilates studio, cardio
machines and crossfit or TRX training area
  * Media lounge with multiple flat screen televisions and game tables available for residents to reserve and use for
private events. Also open during business hours.
  * Bicycle repair space and secured bicycle storage to encourage multiple transit options from the community

4. Provide a process which relates the design and development of a site to the particular characteristics of the site.
The most particular characteristic of the site is its proximity to the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station. The station is
an outcome of millions of dollars of infrastructure investment that needs to be leveraged for the benefit of the
community. By locating a dense multifamily project in the immediate vicinity of Mass Transit, several objectives are
achieved such as, Economic Vitality, Enlarged Tax Base, Sustainable Development, Healthy Living, and Sustainable
Transportation. A dense multifamily development has proven itself to be the most viable and necessary form of
development in the vicinity of transit stops in the region. This project continues that trend.

5. Require that the nature and intensity of development be supported by adequate utilities, transportation network,
drainage systems and open space to serve the development, and to minimize impacts on adjacent existing and future
development.
Based on Strategic Land Solution's (SLS) conversations with City Engineering staff, the existing utilities are capable of
supporting this project. The preliminary design connects the building effluent line to the existing sanitary sewer main
located in Littleton Boulevard. Water will be served by the main in S. Bemis Street, with a new fire hydrant connecting
                                                                                                                   6|Page
to the existing main in Littleton Boulevard. The existing water infrastructure is capable of supplying the expected fire
flow requirements. Based on SLS's conversations with Xcel Energy and Century Link communications, there is sufficient
existing natural gas, electrical, and telecommunications facilities near the project to serve the expected development
requirements. Residents will have walkable access to the Downtown Littleton light rail station and RTD bus service. The
development will also provide the required 1.5 parking spaces per units so residents can park their cars within our fully
enclosed parking garage. Alliance will also provide a traffic signal at the corner of S. Bemis Street and Littleton
Boulevard, if warranted by the City. The development will also provide 35% open space and through coordination with
the City through the use of park impact fees generated by the project, will enhance the flood plain to the south of our
site and add a trail connection on the west portion of our property.

6. Encourage development that is consistent with the policies and guidelines established in the adopted Comprehensive
Plan for the area and for the City.
See attached for our Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan.

ADDITIONAL MATERIALS
A) The applicant shall submit a statement of the terms and conditions under which the subject property will be developed
and maintained subsequent to development. Such a statement shall include conditions, performance standards and such
other reasonable restrictions as may be necessary to ensure development and maintenance of the subject property in full
accordance with the approved PD Plan.
During construction, Alliance will follow the Good Neighborhood Construction Policy:
The Owners agree to implement a plan of construction management techniques, including the following:

·       Project Manager cell phone 24/7

·       Address parking for workers (on-site if possible)

·       No trucks and back up beeps before 8 a.m.

·       Construction weekdays 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. / weekends 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.

·       Dust mitigation methods, including without limitation, water wagons for construction and dust control

·       Use a website for the purpose of updating the Sterne Park Neighborhood property owners of important dates
(such as street closures and water interruption) and generally for project updates. Provide a complaint forum via email
so that neighborhood concerns are able to be expressed on a timely basis.

The Owners will adhere to the "4 C's"

Communication with Neighbors Can Facilitate Cooperation and Support

The 4-C Solution:

1.       Communication: Builders who communicate while attempting to limit the impact that construction invariably
causes will win the tolerance of the neighboring residents. A sign on the site, a flyer, a letter to residents in the
immediate area explaining the project and the anticipated schedule can alleviate much of the residents' concerns about
the short-term problems commonly generated by construction
2.       Common Sense: While it is the nature of construction to be messy, noisy and paced to meet the pressure of
deadlines and budgets, neighborhood sites require special consideration. Neighbors and builders must acknowledge the
root of the situation ­ the area is both a neighborhood, where people retreat from the work-a-day world, and a job site,
where time is money and money is the bottom line. Residents' concerns arise when construction practices continually
go beyond the limits of common sense.
                                                                                                               7|Page
3.      Courtesy: Builders can work to the limit of the law, which allows construction noise from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. seven
days a week. Thoughtful contractors who make the effort to schedule the more disruptive aspects of the project to take
place during weekdays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. should expect few complaints from the surrounding residents.
Builders who respect neighbors' concerns and take action to remedy or modify a problem will find that that kind of
consideration should gain friendly support during the project.
4.      Compromise: Compromise begins when builders and neighbors consider each other's point of view.
Compromise takes place through friendly communication between neighbors, the Owners and the contractors

GUIDELINES FOR BUILDERS

Informing Neighbors: At least two days in advance of construction or demolition, the Owners should:

1.      Call or meet with as many neighbors as possible
2.      Mail letters or flyers describing project
3.      Post a sign at the site with a phone number for questions

During Construction: Considerate site policies and procedures should be specifically outlined for the contractors'
employees as well as any sub-contractors on the job.

1.      Limit working hours of high noise operations to the middle of the day at least until the structure is fully enclosed
2.      Limit and control radio noise
3.      Consider neighbor's exposure in sitting and screening the project's mechanical equipment
4.      Place the dumpster on the lot or on the street in the middle of the site
5.      Avoid blowing debris and accumulation of clutter
6.      Cover the dumpster with a tarp bound by cord to contain dust and debris and to control unauthorized use of the
        dumpster
7.      Park construction vehicles off-street if possible. Turn off engines unless operating other equipment
8.      Place portable toilets away from the property lines in less visible locations; arrange for regular service
9.      Control dust with water and chutes
10.     Avoid damage to trees and landscaping

To obtain LEED Gold Certification, the construction quality will be enhanced to achieve premium durability above
applicable building and energy code in the following areas:
1.      Exterior Water/Moisture
2.      Interior Water/Moisture
3.      Air Infiltration
4.      Interstitial Condensation
5.      Pests
6.      Heat Loss
7.      Ultraviolet Radiation

Alliance Residential Company is a fully integrated, national operating company that is focused on acquiring, owning,
developing, and managing rental multi-family properties throughout the United States. Broadstone at Littleton Station
will be owned and operated by Alliance and will be held to high performance standards. Some of the development
features will include FHA/ADA compliant design construction and certification, and LEED certification. During
construction the property will follow a professional erosion and sediment control plan that will be verified through field
certification. Alliance will utilize professional landscape design and will establish a continued maintenance plan. The
design goal for the landscaping, as well as the exterior site lighting, will be to ensure a pedestrian scale throughout the
project and its perimeter. The experience that Alliance Residential Company has in the multifamily residential market is
clearly highlighted through their property management success. The property management staff will be on site seven
days a week during regular business hours. After hours the site will be monitored by 24 hour on-call staff. Additionally,
                                                                                                                8|Page
the site will have 24 hour parking patrol which will be regulated by permits, and in the winter months there will be 24
hour snow removal. Lease agreements will set limitations on what residents can keep on their balconies to minimize
balcony storage. The property will also be designed with a central rooftop satellite dish to help avoid additional balcony
clutter.


B) The applicant shall submit a written description of the objectives to be achieved by the particular development concept
being proposed. This statement shall include, but is not limited to, the manner in which the proposed development meets
or exceeds the intent of the planned development district, the proposed architectural and site design concepts including
style; placement of structures to maximize views and take advantage of the site's natural characteristics; building
materials (type, textures and colors); specific concepts by which the proposed development will make an orderly
transition from existing adjacent development including varied setbacks and facade treatment, additional open space,
screening of parking areas and landscaping of all public and private open spaces and recreational facilities. It is the intent
of this requirement that the applicant provide a clear, concise statement for the reviewing authorities to better
understand the proposed development concept and upon which a decision regarding the proposal may be based.
Design Objectives:
    1. Respect the Historic Courthouse by scaling back the building on the corner of Littleton Blvd and Bemis St.
    2. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by setting back the first three stories by 20', the 4th story
         by 27', and the 5th story by 47'. This will also preserve solar access for the buildings across the street.
    3. Relate to the lower scale buildings along Bemis Street by breaking up the lower story masses into many smaller
         blocks.
    4. Create an inviting and unimposing entry by limiting the height of the entry structure to one or two stories.
    5. Create a safe vehicular environment by adding a much required traffic signal on Littleton Blvd & Bemis St
         intersection.
    6. Upgrade outdated infrastructure by widening & replacing Bemis St fronting the site.
    7. Create a safe community that fosters social interaction by connecting the ground floor units to public
         walkways.
    8. Integrate the building into existing pedestrian infrastructure by providing a connection through the
         development for a regional trail.
    9. Create a Gateway to Downtown Littleton by locating a prominent building mass on the northwest corner, away
         from the courthouse but closer to Downtown.
    10. Respond to the view from Alamo Ave by creating a prominent highly articulated building element that
         culminates the vista from eastbound Alamo Avenue.
    11. Mitigate the length of the West Façade by breaking up the façade into smaller sub-masses.
    12. Screen Parking from View by locating all resident parking in a garage that is surrounded on all sides by
         dwellings.
    13. Preserve Open Space in at least 35% percent of the site. This exceeds the PD requirements.
    14. Place a 59' height limit on the project. This is more stringent than the existing zoning.
    15. Limit the use to Residential only. This is more stringent than existing zoning which allows umpteen uses, some
         of which could be considered public nuisances.
    16. Use high quality building materials like Brick Masonry, Cast Stone Masonry, Metal Panels, Cementitious Panels,
         & Stucco. At least 35% of the building exterior is Brick.
    17. Fit into existing neighborhood by utilizing warm hued color palettes inspired by the surrounding architecture.
    18. Mitigate light reflection pollution by limiting glass reflectivity on the west face of the building.
    19. Take advantage of the views by locating balconies and large openings especially along the south and west
         frontages.
    20. Provide highly amenetized common areas including Courtyard, Pool, Roof Deck, Lounge, & Fitness room for the
         residents.
    21. Provide a native xeric landscape that fits into the neighborhood, uses less water, and creates a year-round
         interest.
    22. Provide a sustainable building that contributes to the environment by pursuing LEED certification.
                                                                                                                  9|Page
C) The applicant shall submit a written statement of the tentative time schedule for phased development. The statement
shall include the type of development, density, floor area ratios, etc., for each phase of development, and shall be
accompanied by a map generally designating the phases and the sequence of development.
Alliance Residential Company plans on developing and financing Broadstone at Littleton Station as one phase. Pending
rezoning, site plan and building permit approvals, construction of the residential development will begin October 2013.
The leasing center and clubhouse will open first, approximately 14 months after the start of construction, in November
2014. Units will then be leased up at a rate of 25 units per month resulting in a fully completed project by September
2015. We are currently planning for a maximum of 325 units ranging in size from 599 square feet to 1,300 square feet.
These units will include a mix of 39% one bedroom/one bathroom, 58% two bedrooms/two bathrooms, and 3% three
bedrooms/two bathrooms.




                                                                                                           10 | P a g e
    DOWNTOWN LITTLETON
 RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT

    TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS




               Prepared for:

       Alliance Residential Company
2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Tower 1, Suite 10500
          Denver, Colorado 80222




               Prepared by:

          Felsburg Holt & Ullevig
    6300 South Syracuse Way, Suite 600
        Centennial, Colorado 80111
              303/721-1440


 Project Engineer: Ryan D. Germeroth, PE




       FHU Reference No. 12-310-01
             February 2013
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                        Traffic Impact Analysis



TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                           Page
I.     INTRODUCTION ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
II.    EXISTING CONDITIONS -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
       A.    Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data--------------------------------------------------- 4
       B.    Existing Roadway Network --------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
       C.    Intersection Capacity ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4
III.   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC conditions--------------------------------------------------------------- 7
       A.    Traffic Volume Projections --------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
       B.    Capacity Analyses ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
IV.    TRIP GENERATION and TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT -------------------------------------------- 10
       A.    Trip Generation --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10
       B.    Assignment of New Site Generated Trips ------------------------------------------------ 10
V.     FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT ------------------------------------------------ 13
       A.    Total Traffic Volumes -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13
       B.    Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis ------------------------------------------------------------- 13
       C.    Traffic Operations ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 16
VI.    SUMMARY/SIGNIFICANT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS----------------------- 17


LIST OF APPENDICES

APPENDIX A COUNT and Crash DATA
APPENDIX B EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS
APPENDIX C 2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS
APPENDIX C 2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS
APPENDIX D 2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS
APPENDIX E WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR
APPENDIX F 2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS
APPENDIX G 2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                          Traffic Impact Analysis



LIST OF FIGURES
                                                                                                              Page
Figure 1.    Vicinity Map ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
Figure 2.    Site Plan -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
Figure 3.    Existing Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service --------------------- 6
Figure 4.    2014 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 8
Figure 5.    2035 Background Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service -------- 9
Figure 6.    Site Generated Traffic Volumes------------------------------------------------------------- 12
Figure 7.    2014 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service --------------- 14
Figure 8.    2035 Total Traffic Volumes, Lane Geometry and Levels of Service --------------- 15


LIST OF TABLES

Table 1.     Site Trip Generation --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                Traffic Impact Analysis



I.       INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this report is to provide information specifically related to the traffic impacts
associated with the redevelopment of the existing property located on the southwest corner of
Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street in Littleton, Colorado. Figure 1 shows the location of this
development in relation to the other roadways in the vicinity of the project site. A previous traffic
study was completed by Felsburg, Holt & Ullevig for this site in September 2005 entitled
Downtown Littleton Transit Oriented Development. Some of the same assumptions developed
for that study were used in the analyses completed for this report.

Currently, the project site includes two buildings with a combined total of about 33,000 square
feet of professional office space. These buildings would be razed and replaced with a 300 unit
apartment building. The proposed plan for the site can be seen on Figure 2.

Direct access to the project site is currently and will continue to be provided via Bemis Street.
No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

The purposes of this study are (1) to evaluate the impact that traffic generated by the proposed
development will have on key intersections in the study area and (2) to determine any needed
mitigation measures or transportation improvements. This study will assess the impacts
associated with two development scenarios, described as follows:

     ·   Year 2014: Completion of the full construction of the redeveloped site.

     ·   Year 2035: Long term planning horizon for the development.




                                                                                               Page 1
                  S. Federal Blvd.




                                                                                                                  l.
                                                                                                                ur t P
                                     Centennial




                                                                                                                  o
                                        Golf




                                                                                                             S. C
                                      Course
                                                                                                                      PROJECT
                                                                                                                      SITE
                                                            W. Main St.
                                                                                        One                           W. Littleton Blvd.
                                                                                        Way
                               .                         One
                            Ave                          Way
                        les




                                                                                                                                           S. Windermere St.
           w
         Bo
      W.



                                                                                              S. Bemis St.
                                                       W. Church Ave.
                                                         Arapahoe
                                                        Community
                                                          College                                                        Sterne
                                                                                                                          Park
                                                                                                                          W. Lake Ave.


                                                  85
                                                                        S. Prince St.




                                                                                                                                                               Figure 1
        FELSBURG                                                                                                                         Vicinity Map
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                         NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
                                              Figure 2
        FELSBURG                             Site Plan
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                           NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 10/17/12
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                Traffic Impact Analysis



II.       EXISTING CONDITIONS
A.        Existing Traffic Volumes and Crash Data

Existing traffic volumes at key locations in the site vicinity are provided on Figure 3. This figure
also shows the existing pedestrian traffic utilizing the crosswalk located just west of Bemis
Street. Currently there are approximately 30 pedestrians crossing Littleton Boulevard during
both the AM and PM peak hours. Traffic data was collected in October 2012 and is provided in
Appendix A.

In addition, three years (2010 to 2012) of crash data for the intersection of Littleton Boulevard
and Bemis Street were also reviewed to determine if a correctable crash pattern exists. An
intersection diagram as well as a crash listing can be found in Appendix A. During the three
year period, there were a total of 10 crashes at this intersection, 8 of which were rear end
crashes that occurred on Littleton Boulevard.

B.        Existing Roadway Network

The existing transportation network in the site vicinity includes the following key roadways:

      ·   Littleton Boulevard: This 4-lane minor arterial extends east from Downtown Littleton to
          Broadway. Littleton Boulevard splits into one-way streets through the downtown area of
          Littleton, with the westbound direction being Main Street and the eastbound direction
          being Alamo Avenue.

      ·   Bemis Street: This 2-lane local street extends south from Littleton Boulevard to Lake
          Street. This road serves both residential and commercial uses. Daily traffic count data
          indicates that Bemis Street currently carries about 960 vehicles per day (vpd) just south
          of Littleton Boulevard.

      ·   Lake Street: This collector street extends east of Prince Street to Windermere Street.
          The intersection of Lake Street and Bemis Street is a 4-way stop-sign controlled facility.

C.        Intersection Capacity

Capacity analyses were conducted at the three study area intersections using analysis methods
documented in the Highway Capacity Manual 2010, December 2010 by the Transportation
Research Board. The analysis software Synchro 8 was utilized in these analyses. These
analyses use the existing traffic volumes and intersection lane geometry to develop a level of
service (LOS), a measure of the ease of traffic flow through an intersection. Level of service A
represents relatively uninterrupted flow with little or no vehicle delay, while LOS F represents
undue delay and excessive congestion.

Using the HCM criteria, the existing traffic volumes, intersection lane assignments and traffic
control measures, capacity analyses of these intersections were conducted. Currently the
intersections at Littleton Boulevard and the site access operate as two way stop controlled
intersections while the intersection at Lake Avenue is an all way stop controlled intersection.




                                                                                              Page 4
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                          Traffic Impact Analysis



As can be seen on Figure 3, the majority of the movements at the intersections currently
operate at LOS C or better during both peak hours. The only exception is the northbound
approach to Littleton Boulevard during the PM peak which currently operates at LOS E. Level of
service worksheets for existing conditions may be found in Appendix B.




                                                                                        Page 5
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                 b/b
   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Pedestrian Volumes




                                                                                                                  28(31)
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                    678(1059)
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized                                                                                  17(33)




                                                                                                                                                           c/e
                      Intersection Level of Service
                                                                                                          945(1029)




                                                                                                    l.
                                                                                               ur t P
                    = Stop Sign                                                                              27(28)




                                                                                                                               4(14)
                                                                                                                              14(29)
                                                                                          o
                                                                                     S. C
                                                        W. Main St.
                                                                 One
                                                                 Way                                                           W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                      Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                    958




                                                                                                                           20(51)
                                                                                                                           17(9)
                                                          One
                                                          Way                SITE

                                                Light Rail                                                       2(17)
                                                 Station                                                          1(5)




                                                                                                                                       3(1)
                                                                                                                                     20(28)
                                                                                     S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne                         a/a
                                                                                                                Park




                                                                                                                                                     a/a
                                                                       Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                    W. Lake Ave.
                                          a/a




                                                                   9(23)
                                                                   2(8)
                                                                   2(7)




                                                                            5(7)
                                                                            61(97)
                                                       a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                 4(2)
                                                             42(62)
                                                                           4(3)
                                                                           0(2)
                                                                           4(2)




                                                               1(4)
                                                a/a




                                                                                                                                                           Figure 3
                                                                                                                          Existing Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                    NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                Traffic Impact Analysis



III.   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
A.     Traffic Volume Projections

Background traffic consists of vehicle-trips on the roadway network not related to the proposed
residential development. First, traffic from the existing site currently using the study intersections
was removed from the turning movements since the existing office buildings will be removed
and replaced by the proposed development. The existing daily traffic on Bemis Street just south
of Littleton Boulevard was reduced based on the assumption that the AM Peak hour traffic
to/from the site is approximately 10 percent of the daily traffic. This is a reduction of
approximately 200 vehicles on Bemis Street just south of Littleton Boulevard. Background traffic
volumes for this traffic analysis were then developed based on an annual growth rate of
approximately 0.5 percent. This is based on information from historic traffic counts completed by
the City of Littleton in the vicinity of the site. Given that the area in the vicinity of the site is
nearly built out a 0.5 percent grow rate is not uncommon.

Projected Year 2014 background traffic volumes are depicted on Figure 4 while Year 2035
background traffic volumes are shown on Figure 5.

B.     Capacity Analyses

Once the future traffic volumes had been determined, a level of service analysis was completed
for each of the future scenarios. The results of this analysis can be seen on Figures 4 and 5
and the level of service worksheets can be found in Appendices C and D. For the Year 2014
background traffic scenario, all of the stop-controlled intersections are anticipated to operate at
LOS D or better during the AM and PM peak hours with the existing lane geometry in place. In
2035, most of the stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS C or better with
the exception of the northbound Bemis Street approach at Littleton Boulevard which is expected
to operate at LOS E during the PM peak hour.




                                                                                               Page 7
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                      b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                        678(1059)
                                                                                                                           10(28)




                                                                                                                                                c/d
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                          945(1029)




                                                                                                    l.
                                                                                               ur t P
                                                                                                             17(24)




                                                                                                                          4(9)
                                                                                                                        12(17)
                                                                                          o
                                                                                     S. C
                                                        W. Main St.
                                                                  One
                                                                  Way                                                   W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                      Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                    760
                                                             One
                                                             Way             SITE

                                                Light Rail
                                                 Station                             S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                               Sterne
                                                                                                                Park



                                                                        Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                           W. Lake Ave.
                                          a/a




                                                                   9(23)
                                                                   2(8)
                                                                   2(7)




                                                                            5(7)
                                                                            61(97)
                                                       a/a                  2(4)

                           a/a                                   4(2)
                                                               42(62)
                                                                           4(3)
                                                                           0(2)
                                                                           4(2)




                                                                 1(4)
                                                a/a




                                                                                                                                                Figure 4
                                                                                                                  2014 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                               Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                             NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                              b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                         760(1190)
                                                                                                                            10(30)




                                                                                                                                                    c/e
                    = Stop Sign
                                                                                                          1060(1155)




                                                                                                      l.
                                                                                                 ur t P
                                                                                                              20(25)




                                                                                                                          5(10)
                                                                                                                         15(20)
                                                                                            o
                                                                                       S. C
                                                        W. Main St.
                                                                  One
                                                                  Way                                                    W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                      Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                      850
                                                             One
                                                             Way              SITE

                                                Light Rail
                                                 Station                               S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                Sterne
                                                                                                                 Park



                                                                        Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                            W. Lake Ave.
                                                                   10(25)
                                          a/a




                                                                   0(10)
                                                                   5(10)




                                                                             5(10)
                                                                             70(110)
                                                       a/a                   0(5)

                           a/a                                   5(5)
                                                               45(70)
                                                                            5(5)
                                                                            0(0)
                                                                            5(5)




                                                                 0(5)
                                                a/a




                                                                                                                                                    Figure 5
                                                                                                                   2035 Background Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                                Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                              NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                     Traffic Impact Analysis



IV.         TRIP GENERATION AND TRAFFIC ASSIGNMENT
A.          Trip Generation

The amount of traffic that the project site is expected to generate was estimated from data
documented by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in their manual titled Trip
Generation, 9th Edition.

Given that the project site is situated immediately adjacent to a major light rail transit station, it is
anticipated that a portion of the trips oriented to/from the project site will be transit related,
thereby reducing the potential amount of vehicle traffic that the project site will generate. Transit
reduction factors from Table B.3 of the ITE Trip Generation Handbook, 2nd Edition, were applied
to the total vehicle-trip generation for the project site. Specifically, a 10% trip reduction was
applied to the residential trips generated by this site. Of note, this is the same reduction utilized
in the September 2005 study.

Table 1 summarizes the total estimated vehicle-trips that will be generated by the proposed
development.

Table 1.            Site Trip Generation

                                                         AM Peak Hour Trips         PM Peak Hour Trips
           Land Use         ITE                 Daily
          Description      Code      Size       Trips    In     Out    Total       In      Out      Total
 Apartment                  220       300 du     1,995    31     122       153      121      65       186

               Transit Related Trip Reduction    (200)    (3)   (12)     (15)       (12)     (6)     (18)
                  TOTAL VEHICLE TRIPS           1,795     28    110      138       109       59      168
 du = dwelling units

As shown in Table 1, it is estimated that the project site will generate a total of approximately
1,795 vehicle-trips per day with a total of 138 vehicle-trips during the AM peak hour and 168
vehicle-trips during the PM peak hour.

B.          Assignment of New Site Generated Trips

The distribution of site generated vehicle trips was based upon existing travel patterns in the
study area. The estimated trip distribution is as follows:

      ·     45% oriented to/from the east via Littleton Blvd,
      ·     35% oriented to/from the west via Littleton Blvd/Alamo Ave.,
      ·     10% oriented to/from the west via Lake Street,
      ·     6% oriented to/from the east via Lake Street,
      ·     4% oriented to/from the south via Bemis Street




                                                                                                   Page 10
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                               Traffic Impact Analysis



The trip distribution percentages identified above are graphically shown on Figure 6. The site
generated vehicle trips from Table 1 were assigned to the each of the study intersections
according to the distribution patterns identified above. The resulting total site generated traffic
volumes are provided on Figure 6.




                                                                                             Page 11
  LEGEND

 XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
  XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volume

   XX%
                  = Site Trip Distribution
                                                                                                                            12(50)
                                                                35%
                                                                                                          10(38)




                                                                                                   l.
                                                                                              ur t P




                                                                                                                       39(21)
                                                                                                                       49(27)
                                                                                         o
                                                                                    S. C
                                                W. Main St.
                                                           One
                                                           Way                                                               W. Littleton Blvd.


                                             Alamo Ave.                                                                      45%




                                                                                                   1440
                                                   One
                                                   Way                       SITE




                                                                                                                                  22(88)
                                          Light Rail
                                           Station


                                                                                                                        88(48)
                                                                                                                        22(11)




                                                                                                                                           6(21)
                                                                                    S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                   Sterne
                                                                                                                    Park



                                                                      Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                W. Lake Ave.


                                           10%                                                                                             6%
                                                       11(6)




                                                                                                          4%
                                                       4(2)
                                                       7(3)




                                                                      2(6)

                                                  3(11)
                                                               1(4)




                                                                                                                                                      Figure 6
        FELSBURG                                                                                                            Site Generated Traffic Volumes
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                Traffic Impact Analysis



V.     FUTURE CONDITIONS WITH DEVELOPMENT
A.     Total Traffic Volumes

Year 2014

Figure 7 depicts total Year 2014 traffic volumes. These traffic volumes were calculated by
adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 4 and the site generated traffic
volumes shown on Figure 6.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

Figure 8 depicts the total traffic volumes in the long term future. These traffic volumes were
calculated by adding together the background traffic volumes shown on Figure 5 and the site
generated traffic volumes shown on Figure 6.

B.     Traffic Signal Warrant Analysis

The MUTCD identifies nine warrants that provide guidance to determine whether installation of
a traffic signal is justified. Some of these warrants are based on traffic volume or pedestrian
volume levels, while others are based on the crash history of an intersection.

When evaluating future traffic conditions for this study, Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume), Warrant
4 (Pedestrian Volume) and Warrant 7 (Crash Experience) were evaluated. Please keep in mind,
however, that the MUTCD states that Warrant 3 should only be used for analyzing intersections
that have unusual traffic characteristics such as when large numbers of vehicles are discharged
over a short timeframe like during shift work at a factory. That is not the case for this project. As
such, traffic signal warrant analyses using Warrant 3 are only included in this analysis as a
guide for the potential of signalization in the future, not as a recommendation.

Considering these factors, it is possible that a traffic signal may be warranted in the future at the
intersection of Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street due to vehicle volume and delay but is
unlikely due to pedestrian volume or crash experience. A pedestrian volume of approximately
100 pedestrians per hour is needed to meet Warrant 4. The current pedestrian volume is 30
pedestrians per hour. Vehicle safety could be a consideration at this intersection due to the
difficult northbound to westbound left turn movement that could result in collisions but the crash
history currently does not include collisions involving northbound left turning vehicles. This
should be monitored in the future. However, with regard to traffic volumes, there are two key
considerations when evaluating whether or not a signal may be warranted at this location. First,
this intersection is only expected to meet the criteria of Warrant 3 (see Appendix E) if all of the
northbound right turning vehicles are included as part of the side street volume. In addition, to
meet the criteria of either Warrant 1 or Warrant 2, vehicular volumes on northbound Bemis
Street would need to be in excess of 80 vehicles per hour for at least four hours of a typical day.
It is possible this threshold could be met but it is recommended that a complete warrant study
be conducted at this intersection when the proposed apartment building is fully constructed.
However, given that this intersection marginally warrants a signal based on Warrant 3, analyses
have been completed both with and without a signal in place at Littleton Boulevard.




                                                                                             Page 13
   LEGEND

   XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                    b/b
    XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
       x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                      Intersection Level of Service                                                                                678(1059)
                                                                                                                                   22(78)




                                                                                                                                                            e/f
      X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                            945(1029)




                                                                                                     l.
                      Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                                ur t P
                                                                                                               27(62)                              A/A




                                                                                                                             43(30)
                                                                                                                             61(44)
                    = Stop Sign




                                                                                           o
                                                                                      S. C
                    = Traffic Signal

                                                        W. Main St.
                                                                  One                                                                              with signal
                                                                  Way                                                         W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                      Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                     2200




                                                                                                                          22(88)
                                                                                                                          20(51)
                                                             One
                                                             Way              SITE

                                                Light Rail                                                       88(48)
                                                 Station                                                         22(11)




                                                                                                                                     6(21)
                                                                                                                                    20(28)
                                                                                      S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                 Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                  Park




                                                                                                                                                      a/a
                                                                        Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                   W. Lake Ave.
                                                                   20(29)
                                          a/a




                                                                   9(10)
                                                                   6(10)




                                                                             7(13)
                                                                             61(97)
                                                       a/a                   2(4)

                           a/a                                  7(13)
                                                               42(62)
                                                                            4(3)
                                                                            1(6)
                                                                            4(3)




                                                                 1(4)
                                                a/a




                                                                                                                                                            Figure 7
                                                                                                                          2014 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                                 Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                    NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
    LEGEND

    XXX(XXX)         = AM(PM) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                b/b
     XXXX            = Daily Traffic Volumes
        x/x          = AM/PM Peak Hour Unsignalized
                       Intersection Level of Service                                                                              760(1190)
                                                                                                                                  20(80)




                                                                                                                                                          f/f
       X/X           = AM/PM Peak Hour Signalized
                                                                                                          1060(1155)




                                                                                                      l.
                       Intersection Level of Service




                                                                                                 ur t P
                                                                                                              30(65)                              A/A




                                                                                                                            45(30)
                                                                                                                            65(45)
                     = Stop Sign




                                                                                            o
                                                                                       S. C
                     = Traffic Signal

                                                        W. Main St.
                                                                  One                                                                             with signal
                                                                  Way                                                        W. Littleton Blvd.


                                                      Alamo Ave.




                                                                                                      2290




                                                                                                                         20(90)
                                                                                                                         20(55)
                                                             One
                                                             Way              SITE

                                                Light Rail                                                      90(50)
                                                 Station                                                        20(10)




                                                                                                                                    5(20)
                                                                                                                                   20(30)
                                                                                       S. Bemis St.




                                                                                                                Sterne                      a/a
                                                                                                                 Park




                                                                                                                                                    a/a
                                                                        Shepperd Ave.




                                                                                                                                  W. Lake Ave.
                                                                   20(30)
                                          a/a




                                                                   5(10)
                                                                   5(15)




                                                                             5(15)
                                                                             70(110)
                                                       a/a                   0(5)

                           a/a                                 10(10)
                                                               45(70)
                                                                            5(5)
                                                                            0(5)
                                                                            5(5)




                                                                 0(5)
                                                a/a




                                                                                                                                                          Figure 8
                                                                                                                         2035 Total Traffic Volumes,
        FELSBURG                                                                                                Lane Geometry and Levels of Service
        H O LT &
        ULLE VI G
                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 2/11/13
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                                Traffic Impact Analysis



C.     Traffic Operations

Year 2014

Projected Year 2014 traffic control and levels of service are depicted on Figure 7. As shown,
most of the stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better during both
peak hours with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the
northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is expected to operate at
LOS E or worse. The poor LOS is due primarily to the heavy traffic volumes on Littleton
Boulevard which limit the number of gaps in traffic for northbound left turning vehicles to utilize.
The longest queue on the northbound approach is expected to be approximately 100 feet or
roughly 4 vehicles. If signalized, this intersection would operate at LOS A during both peak
hours.

Level of service worksheets can be found in Appendix F.

Long-Term Future (Year 2035)

Projected Year 2035 traffic control and levels of service are depicted on Figure 8. As shown,
once again, most of the stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better
during both peak hours with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception
again would be the northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is
expected to operate at LOS F during both peak hours. It is worth noting that the volume to
capacity ratio for the northbound approach during the PM peak is expected to be 1.02 which
means the approach is expected to be slightly over capacity. This is once again primarily due to
the heavy traffic volumes on Littleton Boulevard which limit the number of gaps in traffic for
northbound left turning vehicles to utilize. The longest queue on the northbound approach is
expected to be approximately 140 feet or roughly 5 to 6 vehicles. If signalized, this intersection
would operate at LOS A during both peak hours.

Level of service worksheets can be found in Appendix G.




                                                                                             Page 16
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                               Traffic Impact Analysis



VI.    SUMMARY/SIGNIFICANT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The purpose of this report is to provide information specifically related to the traffic impacts
associated with the redevelopment of the existing property located on the southwest corner of
Littleton Boulevard and Bemis Street in Littleton, Colorado. Currently, the project site includes
two buildings with a combined total of about 33,000 square feet of professional office space.
These buildings would be razed and replaced with a 300 unit apartment building.

Direct access to the project site is currently and will continue to be provided via Bemis Street.
No direct access to the project site is planned along Littleton Boulevard.

At full buildout, this site is anticipated to add approximately 1,795 trips per day to the
surrounding roadway network, with approximately 140 trips occurring during the AM peak hour
and approximately 170 trips during the PM peak hour.

The findings resulting from this analysis are summarized below.

Year 2014 Build

Most of the stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better during both
peak hours with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception would be the
northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is expected to operate at
LOS E or worse. The longest northbound vehicle queue during the peak is expected to be 4
vehicles. If signalized, this intersection would operate at LOS A during both peak hours.

Year 2035 Build

Once again, most of the stop controlled approaches are expected to operate at LOS B or better
during both peak hours with the existing lane geometry and traffic control. The only exception
again would be the northbound approach to Littleton Boulevard on Bemis Street which is
expected to operate at LOS F during both peak hours. During the PM peak hour, the
northbound approach is expected to be slightly over capacity with the longest vehicle queue
between 5 and 6 vehicles. If signalized, this intersection would operate at LOS A during both
peak hours.

Traffic Control Recommendation

Once construction of the site is complete and corresponding site and background traffic
volumes increase, analyses that evaluate all nine warrants from the MUTCD should be
conducted at the Littleton Boulevard intersection with Bemis Street. Currently it is expected that
this intersection will marginally warrant a traffic signal based on Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume)
but is not expected to warrant signalization based on Warrant 4 (Pedestrian Volume) or Warrant
7 (Crash Experience). A pedestrian volume of approximately 100 pedestrians per hour is
needed to meet Warrant 4. The current pedestrian volume is 30 pedestrians per hour.

Vehicle safety could be a consideration at this intersection due to the difficult northbound to
westbound left turn movement that could result in collisions but the crash history currently does




                                                                                            Page 17
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment                               Traffic Impact Analysis



not include collisions involving northbound left turning vehicles. However, crashes at this
intersection should be monitored in the future as traffic volumes increase since this pattern
could become more prevalent.

Based on these findings, a traffic signal would help to reduce the vehicle delay and queues
expected on the northbound approach of Bemis Street at Littleton Boulevard as well as aid
pedestrians in crossing Littleton Boulevard. A traffic signal could also help to improve safety for
the northbound to westbound left turn movement. Since this intersection marginally warrants a
traffic signal based on Warrant 3, analyses in this report have been completed both with and
without a traffic signal in place.




                                                                                            Page 18
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment   Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX A          COUNT AND CRASH DATA




                                                            Appendix A
                                           All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 1
                                                 9660 W 44th Ave
                                             Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                               www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                           Site Code: 4
                                                                                           Station ID: 4
                                                                            BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start        02-Oct-12                                                                            Total
Time            Tue        NB       SB
12:00 AM                     0        0                                                                    0
    12:15                    0        2                                                                    2
    12:30                    0        0                                                                    0
    12:45                    0        0                                                                    0
    01:00                    2        1                                                                    3
    01:15                    0        0                                                                    0
    01:30                    0        0                                                                    0
    01:45                    0        0                                                                    0
    02:00                    0        0                                                                    0
    02:15                    0        0                                                                    0
    02:30                    0        0                                                                    0
    02:45                    0        1                                                                    1
    03:00                    0        0                                                                    0
    03:15                    0        0                                                                    0
    03:30                    0        0                                                                    0
    03:45                    0        0                                                                    0
    04:00                    1        0                                                                    1
    04:15                    0        0                                                                    0
    04:30                    0        0                                                                    0
    04:45                    1        0                                                                    1
    05:00                    0        0                                                                    0
    05:15                    1        0                                                                    1
    05:30                    3        1                                                                    4
    05:45                    1        1                                                                    2
    06:00                    0        0                                                                    0
    06:15                    1        1                                                                    2
    06:30                    6        0                                                                    6
    06:45                    4        2                                                                    6
    07:00                    4        6                                                                   10
    07:15                    5        9                                                                   14
    07:30                    4        6                                                                   10
    07:45                    5       15                                                                   20
    08:00                    7        7                                                                   14
    08:15                    4       13                                                                   17
    08:30                    2       13                                                                   15
    08:45                    4         9                                                               13
    09:00                    5         5                                                               10
    09:15                    5         7                                                               12
    09:30                    5         6                                                               11
    09:45                    8        11                                                               19
    10:00                    8         6                                                               14
    10:15                    5         4                                                                9
    10:30                    4         7                                                               11
    10:45                    7         5                                                               12
    11:00                    5         4                                                                9
    11:15                    7         7                                                               14
    11:30                    7         8                                                               15
    11:45                   12         8                                                               20
     Total                  133      165                                                              298
  Percent                44.6%    55.4%
    Peak                  11:00    07:45                                                            07:45
      Vol.                   31       48                                                               66
   P.H.F.                 0.646    0.800                                                            0.825
                                                   All Traffic Data Services, Inc                        Page 2
                                                         9660 W 44th Ave
                                                     Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                       www.alltrafficdata.net

                                                                                                   Site Code: 4
                                                                                                   Station ID: 4
                                                                                    BEMIS S/O LITTLETON BLVD



Start           02-Oct-12                                                                                 Total
Time               Tue        NB          SB
12:00 PM                        7              9                                                                  16
    12:15                       6              6                                                                  12
    12:30                       9              4                                                                  13
    12:45                      11             13                                                                  24
    01:00                       7             18                                                                  25
    01:15                      16             10                                                                  26
    01:30                       7             14                                                                  21
    01:45                       4              5                                                                   9
    02:00                       4              8                                                                  12
    02:15                       4              7                                                                  11
    02:30                      10              6                                                                  16
    02:45                       8             12                                                                  20
    03:00                       5              1                                                                   6
    03:15                      18              5                                                                  23
    03:30                       6              5                                                                  11
    03:45                       7              5                                                                  12
    04:00                       6             12                                                                  18
    04:15                       6             15                                                                  21
    04:30                      13              5                                                                  18
    04:45                       6             14                                                                  20
    05:00                      11             20                                                                  31
    05:15                      12             22                                                                  34
    05:30                      13              6                                                                  19
    05:45                      10          14                                                                     24
    06:00                      12          12                                                                  24
    06:15                      19          12                                                                  31
    06:30                        5          9                                                                  14
    06:45                        6          7                                                                  13
    07:00                       19         14                                                                  33
    07:15                       10         12                                                                  22
    07:30                        8          3                                                                  11
    07:45                        2          3                                                                   5
    08:00                        7          3                                                                  10
    08:15                        2          7                                                                   9
    08:30                        6          3                                                                   9
    08:45                        3          1                                                                   4
    09:00                        1          6                                                                   7
    09:15                        1          1                                                                   2
    09:30                        2          2                                                                   4
    09:45                        0          1                                                                   1
    10:00                        3          1                                                                   4
    10:15                        1          0                                                                   1
    10:30                        1          3                                                                   4
    10:45                        4          4                                                                   8
    11:00                        0          1                                                                   1
    11:15                        0          1                                                                   1
    11:30                        0          0                                                                   0
    11:45                        0          0                                                                   0
     Total                     318        342                                                                 660
  Percent                   48.2%      51.8%
    Peak                     17:30      16:45                                                               17:00
      Vol.                      54         62                                                                 108
   P.H.F.                    0.711      0.705                                                               0.794
        Total                       451        507                                                               958
     Percent                      47.1%      52.9%

        ADT                         ADT 958                    AADT 958
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                         File Name        : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                         Page No          :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                       Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   117     1      0      2      0     0      4                          3   186     0      0       313
  07:15 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   122     6      0      5      0     0     11                          4   220     0      0       368
  07:30 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   162     4      0      6      0     1      8                          7   237     0      0       425
  07:45 AM       0         0    0      0                             0   170     5      0      4      0     3     10                          6   259     0      0       457
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0   571    16      0     17      0     4     33                         20   902     0      0     1563

  08:00 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    178      6               0               3      0    0      6        7           232                      0   0    432
  08:15 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      2               0               1      0    0      4        7           217                      0   0    399
  08:30 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    141      4               1               5      0    0      6        4           169                      0   0    330
  08:45 AM      0                      0              0       0     0    168      0               0               7      0    1     10        3           231                      0   0    420
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0    655     12               1              16      0    1     26       21           849                      0   0   1581

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1226     28               1              33      0     5     59      41           1751                     0   0   3144
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.7    2.2             0.1              34      0   5.2   60.8     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0     39    0.9               0               1      0   0.2    1.9     1.3           55.7                     0   0


                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                          0         0                0


                                                                                  0     0                    0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru              Left       Other
                                     3023


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                            1784
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1226
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                                North
                                                    41 1751
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             1792
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                    1255
                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                               28
                     1231




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                           3039
                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                      5           0  33    59


                                                                                  69               97              166
                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                                               BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                           File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONAM
                                                                                                                           Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                           Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                         LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                                  App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 162     4   0   166         6    0    1    8                                        15        7         237               0          0   244       425
 07:45 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 170     5   0   175         4    0    3   10                                        17        6         259               0          0   265       457
 08:00 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 178     6   0   184         3    0    0    6                                         9        7         232               0          0   239      432
 08:15 AM      0       0     0     0      0      0 168     2   0   170         1    0    0    4                                         5        7         217               0          0   224      399
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 678    17   0   695       14     0    4   28                                        46       27         945               0          0   972     1713
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0 97.6 2.4    0            30.4    0  8.7 60.9                                          2.8 97.2    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .952 .708 .000            .944 .583 .000 .333 .700        .676 .964 .912 .000 .000                                 .917     .937

                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                              0         0              0


                                                                                      0     0                  0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru            Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      1654


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                  Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                  959
                                                                                                                                                     0
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                   LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                                    North
                                                         945
                                             Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                        678
                               972
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM                                                             695
                                                     27




                                                                                                                                                  Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                    17
                       682
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                1654
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                   Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          4           0  14    28


                                                                                      44               46             90
                                                                                    Out              In            Total
                                                                                                   BEMIS
                                                                            All Traffic Data Services
                                                                            Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name         : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No           :1
                                                                             Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                       LITTLETON BLVD                  BEMIS                                LITTLETON BLVD
                       Southbound                                       Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                          Rght Thru    Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght Thru    Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   248     8      0      3      0     2     14                      4   254     0      0       533
  04:15 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   253     4      0      6      0     6      5                      4   225     0      0       503
  04:30 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   270    11      0      5      0     3      6                      6   234     0      0       535
  04:45 PM       0         0    0      0                             0   267     9      0     10      0     4     10                     17   248     0      0       565
      Total      0         0    0      0                             0 1038     32      0     24      0    15     35                     31   961     0      0     2136

  05:00 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    252      8          0               7      0     2      7        4            285                     0   0    565
  05:15 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    270      5          0               7      0     5      8        1            262                     0   0    558
  05:30 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    265     11          0               8      0     2      7        3            239                     0   0    535
  05:45 PM      0                      0              0       0     0    232      5          0              14      0     3      4        8            239                     0   0    505
      Total     0                      0              0       0     0   1019     29          0              36      0    12     26       16           1025                     0   0   2163

Grand Total     0                      0              0       0     0   2057     61          0            60        0     27     61      47           1986                     0   0   4299
 Apprch %       0                      0              0       0     0   97.1    2.9          0          40.5        0   18.2   41.2     2.3           97.7                     0   0
   Total %      0                      0              0       0     0   47.8    1.4          0           1.4        0    0.6    1.4     1.1           46.2                     0   0


                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                      0        0                0


                                                                                  0     0               0       0
                                                                               Rght Thru         Left       Other
                                     4117


                                                0
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                        2046
                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                            0 2057
                      LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                          LITTLETON BLVD



                                                                                           North
                                                    47 1986
                                            Other Rght Thru
                             2033
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                2118
                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                 10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                 10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                         Left Other
                                                                                                                                           61
                     2084




                                                                                 Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                       4164
                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                               Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                 27     0  60    61


                                                                                 108         148              256
                                                                                Out         In              Total
                                                                                          BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                      File Name           : #1 BEMIS&LITTLETONPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                      Page No             :2

                         BEMIS                     LITTLETON BLVD                     BEMIS                                                    LITTLETON BLVD
                      Southbound                      Westbound                    Northbound                                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other App. Total                     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270    11   0   281         5    0    3    6                                   14        6         234               0          0   240       535
 04:45 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 267     9   0   276       10     0    4   10                                   24       17         248               0          0   265       565
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 252     8   0   260         7    0    2    7                                   16        4 285                       0          0    289     565
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0      0      0 270     5   0   275         7    0    5    8                                   20        1 262                       0          0    263     558
 Total Volume  0       0     0     0      0      0 1059   33   0 1092        29     0  14    31                                   74       28 1029                      0          0   1057    2223
 % App. Total  0       0     0     0             0   97    3   0            39.2    0 18.9 41.9                                     2.6 97.4    0    0
      PHF .000 .000 .000 .000                                  .000 .000 .981 .750 .000       .972 .725 .000 .700 .775        .771 .412 .903 .000 .000                                 .914     .984

                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                          0        0              0


                                                                                      0     0             0       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru       Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      2130


                                                 0
                                     Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                            1058
                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                0 1059
                       LITTLETON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                              LITTLETON BLVD
                                                                                               North
                                                     28 1029
                                             Other Rght Thru
                              1057
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                    1092
                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                               33
                      1073
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                           2150
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                   Left Thru Rght Other
                                                                                     14     0  29    31


                                                                                      61          74            135
                                                                                    Out         In            Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                               All Traffic Data Services
                                                                               Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                   303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                 File Name           : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date          : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                 Page No             :1
                                                                                 Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                            SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                      SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                          Westbound                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                           Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                   Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0         1    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      2     0      0                      0          0    0      0         3
  07:15 AM       4         4    0      0                              0        0     0      2      0      5     0      0                      0          0    2      0        17
  07:30 AM       4         5    1      0                              0        0     0      0      0      5     2      0                      0          0    0      0        17
  07:45 AM       2         5    0      0                              0        0     0      0      0      7     0      0                      1          0    0      0        15
      Total     10        15    1      0                              0        0     0      2      0     19     2      0                      1          0    2      0        52

  08:00 AM      7                  6                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        3     1     0        0          0                   0     1    19
  08:15 AM      5                  4                   1       0     0        0          0       0               0        1     0     0        0          0                   0     0    11
  08:30 AM      2                  6                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     3     0        0          0                   0     1    18
  08:45 AM      1                  2                   0       0     0        0          0       0               0        6     0     2        0          0                   0     0    11
      Total    15                 18                   2       0     0        0          0       0               0       16     4     2        0          0                   0     2    59

Grand Total     25            33                 3             0     0        0          0       2               0        35     6     2      1           0                    2     2   111
 Apprch %       41          54.1               4.9             0     0        0          0     100               0      81.4    14   4.7     20           0                   40    40
   Total %    22.5          29.7               2.7             0     0        0          0     1.8               0      31.5   5.4   1.8    0.9           0                  1.8   1.8


                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                     37           61               98


                                                                                    25    33                3       0
                                                                                  Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       36


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                               North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 5
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                    10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                    10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                0
                       31




                                                                                    Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                  Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                         6      35   0     2


                                                                                     34           43               77
                                                                                   Out          In              Total
                                                                                              BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                      File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEAM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                      Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                                  SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other          App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
 07:15 AM      4       4     0     0      8      0    0    0   2                                     2            0           5   0   0          5       0            0             2         0          2          17
 07:30 AM      4       5     1     0     10      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           5   2   0          7       0            0             0         0          0          17
 07:45 AM      2       5     0     0      7      0    0    0   0                                     0            0           7   0   0         7        1            0             0         0          1          15
 08:00 AM      7       6     1     0     14      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        3      1   0         4        0            0             0         1          1          19
 Total Volume 17     20      2     0     39      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       20      3   0        23        1            0             2         1          4          68
           43.6 51.3
 % App. Total         5.1    0                                         0    0    0 100                 0   87   13    0                           25    0   50   25
       PHF .607 .833 .500 .000                                 .696 .000 .000 .000 .250        .250 .000 .714 .375 .000                    .821 .250 .000 .250 .250                                .500          .895

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      22             39                  61


                                                                                     17    20                     2       0
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       24


                                                2
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                         Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                          SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                 4
                              In




                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                         Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                   2

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                             0
                       20
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                  2




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          3      20   0     0


                                                                                      21             23                  44
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                 All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                 Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name         : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1
                                                                                   Groups Printed- Class 1
                         BEMIS                                              SITE ACCESS                    BEMIS                                    SITE ACCESS
                       Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
Start Time    Rght      Thru  Left Other                             Rght     Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght       Thru  Left Other Int. Total
  07:00 AM       2         9    0      0                                0        0     0      3      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        21
  07:15 AM       0         6    0      2                                0        0     0      0      0      6     0      0                    0          0    5      0        19
  07:30 AM       1        14    0      1                                1        0     0      0      0      3     1      0                    0          0    3      0        24
  07:45 AM       7        19    0      2                                0        0     0      2      0     10     0      0                    0          0    6      0        46
      Total     10        48    0      5                                1        0     0      5      0     22     2      0                    0          0   17      0       110

  08:00 AM      0                 13                   0        2      0        0          0       0               0        5     0    0       1          0                   3    1     25
  08:15 AM      0                  7                   0        4      0        0          0       0               0        8     1    0       2          0                   4    0     26
  08:30 AM      2                 12                   0        2      0        0          0       1               0        5     0    0       2          0                   4    0     28
  08:45 AM      3                  7                   1        1      0        0          0       0               0        9     0    0       2          0                   5    0     28
      Total     5                 39                   1        9      0        0          0       1               0       27     1    0       7          0                  16    1    107

Grand Total     15            87                 1              14      1       0          0       6               0        49     3   0      7           0              33         1   217
 Apprch %     12.8          74.4               0.9              12   14.3       0          0    85.7               0      94.2   5.8   0   17.1           0            80.5       2.4
   Total %     6.9          40.1               0.5             6.5    0.5       0          0     2.8               0      22.6   1.4   0    3.2           0            15.2       0.5


                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                       83          117              200


                                                                                      15    87                1      14
                                                                                    Rght Thru          Left       Other
                                       59


                                              33
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               1


                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                 North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                         SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                41
                              In




                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                     7




                                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                            Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                0
                       18




                                                                                      Class 1
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                    Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                           3      49   0     0


                                                                                       94           52              146
                                                                                     Out          In              Total
                                                                                                BEMIS
                                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                                   File Name                   : #2 BEAMIS&SITEPM
                                                                                                                                   Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date                  : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                                   Page No                     :2

                         BEMIS                       SITE ACCESS                                                      BEMIS                               SITE ACCESS
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                                    Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other       App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      7     19      0     2     28      0    0    0   2                                     2            0       10   0   0        10        0            0             6         0          6          46
 08:00 AM      0     13      0     2     15      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        5   0   0         5        1            0           3           1         5          25
 08:15 AM      0       7     0     4     11      0    0    0   0                                     0            0        8   1   0         9        2            0           4           0         6          26
 08:30 AM      2     12      0     2     16      0    0    0   1                                     1            0        5   0   0         5        2            0           4           0         6          28
 Total Volume  9     51      0    10     70      0    0    0   3                                     3            0       28   1   0        29        5            0          17           1        23         125
           12.9 72.9
 % App. Total           0 14.3                                         0    0    0 100                 0 96.6  3.4    0                      21.7    0 73.9  4.3
       PHF .321 .671 .000 .625                                 .625 .000 .000 .000 .375        .375 .000 .700 .250 .000                 .725 .625 .000 .708 .250                                .958          .679

                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                      45             70                 115


                                                                                      9    51                     0      10
                                                                                   Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                       33


                                              17
                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                      Rght Thru
                                            Left




                                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                                         0


                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                  North
                        SITE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                       SITE ACCESS
                                                           0
                                            Other Rght Thru
                                23
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                      Left Other



                                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                  Class 1
                                                                                                                                                          0
                       10
                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                   Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                                          1      28   0     0


                                                                                      56             29                  85
                                                                                    Out            In                 Total
                                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                All Traffic Data Services
                                                                Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                     303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name            : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                             Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date           : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No              :1
                                                                  Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                                   LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                             Westbound                 Northbound                                                 Eastbound
Start Time                                                                                                                                                                   Int. Total
   07:00 AM     2           0             0       0     0      11          0            5               2        1      0       0       0           7                0   0         28
   07:15 AM     1           0             0       1     0      13          0            0               0        0      2       0       0          16                0   1         34
   07:30 AM     0           1             0       0     2      21          0            1               1        1      1       0       1          10                2   0         41
   07:45 AM     0           0             0       0     1      17          1            0               1        1      1       0       0          14                0   0         36
       Total    3           1             0       1     3      62          1            6               4        3      4       0       1          47                2   1        139

   08:00 AM     3           1             0       2     1      17          1           4                1        0      1       0       0           7                1   0         39
   08:15 AM     3           0             1       0     1      16          0           1                1        0      0       1       1          10                0   0         35
   08:30 AM     1           0             0       0     2      12          1           4                2        0      2       0       0          13                2   1         40
   08:45 AM     2           1             1       0     1      16          0           2                0        0      1       2       0          12                1   1         40
       Total    9           2             2       2     5      61          2          11                4        0      4       3       1          42                4   2        154

 Grand Total   12          3         2             3     8    123          3          17              8           3      8       3     2           89                6   3        293
  Apprch %     60         15        10            15   5.3   81.5          2        11.3           36.4        13.6   36.4    13.6     2           89                6   3
    Total %    4.1         1       0.7             1   2.7     42          1         5.8            2.7           1    2.7       1   0.7          30.4               2   1



                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                       17                 20              37


                                                                      12     3                     2       3
                                                                    Rght Thru               Left       Other
                        243


                                    6
                       Total




                                                                                                                                     Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                        8


                                                                                                                                                      99




                                                                                     North
                                             89
                                Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                    LAKE AVE
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                           123
                         100
                         In




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                      10/2/2012 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                       151
                                         2




                                                                      10/2/2012 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Other
                                                                                                                                         3
                        143




                                                                      Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                    3




                                                                                                                                                              250
                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                    Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                           8           3    8    3


                                                                               8          22              30
                                                                     Out               In              Total
                                                                                     BEMIS
                                                           All Traffic Data Services
                                                           Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                 303-668-0220
                                                                                                                            File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEAM
                                                                                                                            Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                            Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                            Page No                      :2

                          BEMIS                         LAKE AVE                                     BEMIS                                        LAKE AVE
                       Southbound                       Westbound                                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other              App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other             App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      3       1     0     2        6     1  17     1    4                23             1           0    1    0          2        0    7              1            0         8          39
  08:15 AM      3       0     1     0        4     1  16     0    1                18             1           0    0    1          2        1  10               0            0        11          35
  08:30 AM      1       0     0     0        1     2  12     1    4                19             2           0    2    0          4        0  13               2            1        16          40
  08:45 AM      2       1     1     0        4     1  16     0    2                19             0           0    1    2          3        0  12               1            1        14          40
 Total Volume   9       2     2     2       15     5  61     2  11                 79             4           0    4    3         11        1  42               4            2        49         154
 % App. Total  60 13.3 13.3 13.3                 6.3 77.2 2.5 13.9                          36.4              0 36.4 27.3                   2 85.7            8.2          4.1
        PHF .750 .500 .500 .250          .625 .625 .897 .500 .688              .859 .500 .000 .500 .375                       .688 .250 .808 .500 .500                            .766          .963

                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                          9           15                 24


                                                                   9    2                         2       2
                                                               Rght Thru                   Left       Other




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                          123


                                      4
                         Total




                                                                                                                                            Rght Thru
                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                               5


                                                                                                                                                            48
                                                                                  North
                                               42
                                  Other Rght Thru




                                                                                                                                                          LAKE AVE
                       LAKE AVE

                             49




                                                                                                                                                   61
                           In




                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                               79
                                           1




                                                                                                                                            Left Other




                                                              Class 1
                                                                                                                                                2
                           74
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                    127
                                                                                                                                                    11




                                                               Left           Thru Rght Other
                                                                      4           0    4    3


                                                                          5           11                 16
                                                                 Out               In                 Total
                                                                                 BEMIS
                                                                  All Traffic Data Services
                                                                  Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                       303-668-0220
                                                                                                                    File Name             : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date            : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                    Page No               :1
                                                                    Groups Printed- Class 1
                        BEMIS                                  LAKE AVE                     BEMIS                                         LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                               Westbound                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
Start Time    Rght     Thru  Left Other                 Rght   Thru   Left Other Rght Thru       Left Other                 Rght          Thru   Left Other Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0        0    0      0                    3     24     1      2      2      2     0      0                    0            23     1      2        60
  04:15 PM       2        2    0      0                    3     15     1      1      0      2     0      2                    1            12     1      4        46
  04:30 PM       0        4    2      1                    0     13     2      4      2      0     1      0                    0            16     2      2        49
  04:45 PM       8        1    1      0                    3     22     1      2      1      1     0      0                    1            13     0      3        57
      Total     10        7    3      1                    9     74     5      9      5      5     1      2                    2            64     4     11       212

  05:00 PM      5          1              4        2      2      28          1       6        0         0      0       0        0           15                0      0     64
  05:15 PM      5          2              2        0      1      19          0       1        0         0      2       2        1           18                1      1     55
  05:30 PM      5          4              0        1      1      28          2       6        1         1      1       0        2           16                1      0     69
  05:45 PM      3          4              1        0      1      17          0       3        0         1      2       3        0           11                1      6     53
      Total    18         11              7        3      5      92          3      16        1         2      5       5        3           60                3      7    241

Grand Total     28        18      10                4     14    166      8          25        6          7      6       7      5           124                 7     18   453
 Apprch %     46.7        30    16.7              6.7    6.6   77.9    3.8        11.7     23.1       26.9   23.1    26.9    3.2          80.5               4.5   11.7
   Total %     6.2         4     2.2              0.9    3.1   36.6    1.8         5.5      1.3        1.5    1.3     1.5    1.1          27.4               1.5      4


                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                         28           60        88


                                                                        28    18           10     4
                                                                      Rght Thru          Left Other
                        354


                                    7
                       Total




                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               14


                                                                                                                                             140




                                                                                   North
                                            124
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                            LAKE AVE
                                                                                                                                   166
                          154
                         In




                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                        10/2/2012 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                213
                                         5




                                                                        10/2/2012 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                             Left Other
                                                                                                                                 8
                        200




                                                                        Class 1
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                   18




                                                                                                                                                      353
                                                                                                                                     25




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             6       7   6     7


                                                                         31           26        57
                                                                       Out          In       Total
                                                                                  BEMIS
                                                                   All Traffic Data Services
                                                                   Wheat Ridge,CO 80033
                                                                        303-668-0220
                                                                                                                             File Name                    : #3 BEMIS&LAKEPM
                                                                                                                             Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                             Start Date                   : 10/2/2012
                                                                                                                             Page No                      :2

                         BEMIS                        LAKE AVE                                           BEMIS                                     LAKE AVE
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Rght Thru Left Other App. Total Rght Thru Left Other                 App. Total    Rght Thru Left Other           App. Total   Rght Thru Left Other                     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      8       1     1     0     10      3   22    1   2                      28             1           1   0   0           2       1            13           0        3        17           57
 05:00 PM      5       1     4     2     12      2   28    1   6                      37             0           0   0   0           0       0            15           0        0        15           64
 05:15 PM      5       2     2     0      9      1   19    0   1                    21               0           0   2   2           4       1            18           1        1        21           55
 05:30 PM      5       4     0     1     10      1   28    2   6                    37               1           1   1   0           3       2            16           1        0        19           69
 Total Volume 23       8     7     3     41      7   97    4  15                   123               2           2   3   2           9       4            62           2        4        72         245
           56.1 19.5 17.1
 % App. Total              7.3                          5.7 78.9  3.3 12.2             22.2 22.2 33.3 22.2                           5.6 86.1  2.8  5.6
       PHF .719 .500 .438 .375                    .854 .583 .866 .500 .625        .831 .500 .500 .375 .250                     .563 .500 .861 .500 .333                              .857          .888

                                                                                    BEMIS
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                         11             41                  52


                                                                        23     8                     7       3
                                                                      Rght Thru               Left       Other




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        195


                                    2
                       Total




                                                                                                                                             Rght Thru
                                Left




                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                7


                                                                                                                                                                 71
                                                                                     North
                                             62
                                Other Rght Thru
                     LAKE AVE




                                                                                                                                                               LAKE AVE
                           72




                                                                                                                                                    97
                         In




                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM                                                                  123
                                         4




                                                                                                                                             Left Other




                                                                     Class 1
                                                                                                                                                 4
                        123
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                         194
                                                                                                                                                     15




                                                                      Left       Thru Rght Other
                                                                             3       2   2     2


                                                                         16              9                  25
                                                                       Out            In                 Total
                                                                                    BEMIS
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment       Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX B          EXISTING LEVELS OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                Appendix B
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                Existing AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                      10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.3

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                            945       27     17     678               4     14
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                     12             12
Grade (%)                                 0%                     0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2        2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1027      29     18     737               4     15
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1        2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1056         0         1447    529
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1042       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          405       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655         -          122    494
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          642       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655         -          119    494
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -          119       -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          624       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                   18.3
HCM LOS                                    A              A                     C

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           291
HCM Control Delay (s)                   18.3       -      - 10.656        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.067       -      - 0.028         -
HCM Lane LOS                               C       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.215       -      - 0.087         -




                                                                                             Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                       RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     0.8

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                        2              1       3       20              20       17
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                  2               1       3       22              22      18
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        59              31      40         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   31               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   28               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           948           1043    1570          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  995               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           946           1043    1570          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           946               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  992               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  993               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             8.7                      1                         0
HCM LOS                             A                      A                         A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                         976
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.298     -    8.7            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.002     - 0.003             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.006     -   0.01            -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      4      42      1      2     61      5      4      0      4      2         2       9
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                4      46      1      2     66      5      4      0      4      2         2      10
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                    7.3                 7.1                  6.9
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    9%    3%   15%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   89%   90%   15%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                      8   47    68    13
Left Turning Volume                         0   42    61      2
Through Volume                              4     1     5     9
Right Turning Volume                        4     4     2     2
Lane Flow Rate                              9   51    74    14
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X                0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway, Hd                  3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 897   888   902   941
Service Time                           2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                         7.1   7.3   7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.2   0.3      0




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                Existing PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                      10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.9

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1029       28     33    1059              14     29
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                      12            12
Grade (%)                                 0%                      0%            0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92          0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2         2             2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1118      30     36     1151             15     32
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1         2             1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1148         0         1781    574
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1133       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          648       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604         -            73   462
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          483       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    604         -            69   462
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            69      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          454       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                      NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                     36
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      E

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           162
HCM Control Delay (s)                     36       -      - 11.336        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.289       -      - 0.059         -
HCM Lane LOS                               E       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        1.128       -      - 0.189         -




                                                                                             Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                       RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    Existing PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                             10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     1.9

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       17              5       1       28              51        9
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 18               5       1       30              55      10
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        92              60      65         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   60               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   32               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           908           1005    1537          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  991               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           907           1005    1537          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           907               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  963               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  990               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)              9                      0.3                        0
HCM LOS                            A                        A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        928
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.344     -     9             -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.001     - 0.026             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -     A             -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.002     - 0.079             -     -




                                                                                                 Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                           RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                         Existing PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.5
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      2      62      4      4     97      7      3      2      2      7         8      23
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                2      67      4      4    105      8      3      2      2      8         9      25
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                    7.7                 7.3                  7.2
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         43%    3%    4%   18%
Volume Thru (%)                         29%   91%   90%   21%
Volume Right (%)                        29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                      7   68   108    38
Left Turning Volume                         2   62     97     8
Through Volume                              2     4     7   23
Right Turning Volume                        3     2     4     7
Lane Flow Rate                              8   74   117    41
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway, Hd                   4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 836   874   884   894
Service Time                           2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                         7.3   7.5   7.7   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.3    0.5  0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment      Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX C          2014 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                               Appendix C
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                          2014 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.3

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                            945       17     10     678               4     12
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                     12             12
Grade (%)                                 0%                     0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2        2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1027      18     11     737               4     13
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1        2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1045         0         1427    523
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1036       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          391       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    661         -          126    499
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          303       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          653       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    661         -          124    499
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -          124       -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          303       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          642       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.2                   18.5
HCM LOS                                    A              A                     C

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           284
HCM Control Delay (s)                   18.5       -      - 10.537        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.061       -      - 0.016         -
HCM Lane LOS                               C       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.195       -      -   0.05        -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                           2014 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      4      42      1      2     61      5      4      0      4      2         2       9
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                4      46      1      2     66      5      4      0      4      2         2      10
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.3                    7.3                 7.1                  6.9
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    9%    3%   15%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   89%   90%   15%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    2%    7%   69%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                      8   47    68    13
Left Turning Volume                         0   42    61      2
Through Volume                              4     1     5     9
Right Turning Volume                        4     4     2     2
Lane Flow Rate                              9   51    74    14
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X                0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
Departure Headway, Hd                  3.961 4.035 3.975 3.771
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 897   888   902   941
Service Time                           2.016 2.056 1.993 1.827
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.057 0.082 0.015
HCM Control Delay                         7.1   7.3   7.3   6.9
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.2   0.3      0




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                          2014 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.5

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1029       24     28    1059               9     17
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                      12            12
Grade (%)                                 0%                      0%            0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92          0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2         2             2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1118      26     30     1151             10     18
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1         2             1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1144         0         1767    572
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1131       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          636       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    606         -            75   463
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          270       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          489       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    606         -            71   463
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            71      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          270       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          465       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                   32.5
HCM LOS                                    A              A                     D

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           159
HCM Control Delay (s)                   32.5       -      - 11.254        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.178       -      -   0.05        -
HCM Lane LOS                               D       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.625       -      - 0.158         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                           2014 Background PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.5
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      2      62      4      4     97      7      3      2      2      7         8      23
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                2      67      4      4    105      8      3      2      2      8         9      25
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.5                    7.7                 7.3                  7.2
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         43%    3%    4%   18%
Volume Thru (%)                         29%   91%   90%   21%
Volume Right (%)                        29%    6%    6%   61%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                      7   68   108    38
Left Turning Volume                         2   62     97     8
Through Volume                              2     4     7   23
Right Turning Volume                        3     2     4     7
Lane Flow Rate                              8   74   117    41
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.009 0.084 0.132 0.045
Departure Headway, Hd                   4.21 4.079 4.045 3.942
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 836   874   884   894
Service Time                           2.306 2.123  2.08 2.031
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                      0.01 0.085 0.132 0.046
HCM Control Delay                         7.3   7.5   7.7   7.2
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.3    0.5  0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment      Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX D          2035 BACKGROUND LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                               Appendix D
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                          2035 Background AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.3

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1060       20     10     760               5     15
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                     12             12
Grade (%)                                 0%                     0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2        2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1152      22     11     826               5     16
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1        2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1174         0         1598    587
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1163       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          435       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    591         -            97   453
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          260       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          620       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    591         -            95   453
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            95      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          260       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          608       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                      NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.1                     22
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      C

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           233
HCM Control Delay (s)                     22       -      - 11.205        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.093       -      - 0.018         -
HCM Lane LOS                               C       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.305       -      - 0.056         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                           2035 Background AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.7
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      5      70      5      5    110     10      5      0      5     10        10      25
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                5      76      5      5    120     11      5      0      5     11        11      27
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.6                    7.9                 7.3                  7.4
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    6%    4%   22%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   88%   88%   22%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    6%    8%   56%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                    10    80   125    45
Left Turning Volume                         0   70   110    10
Through Volume                              5     5    10   25
Right Turning Volume                        5     5     5   10
Lane Flow Rate                            11    87   136    49
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.013 0.099 0.153 0.056
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.269 4.116 4.063  4.14
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 843   863   878   870
Service Time                            2.27 2.176 2.114  2.14
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.013 0.101 0.155 0.056
HCM Control Delay                         7.3   7.6   7.9   7.4
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.3    0.5  0.2




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                          2035 Background PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   0.7

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1155       25     30    1190              10     20
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                      12            12
Grade (%)                                 0%                      0%            0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92          0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2         2             2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1255      27     33     1293             11     22
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1         2             1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1282         0         1982    642
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1269       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          713       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    537         -            54   417
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          228       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          447       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    537         -            51   417
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            51      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          228       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          420       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                   44.5
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      E

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           123
HCM Control Delay (s)                   44.5       -      - 12.137        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.265       -      - 0.061         -
HCM Lane LOS                               E       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        0.995       -      - 0.193         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                           2035 Background PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.7
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      5      70      5      5    110     10      5      0      5     10        10      25
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                5      76      5      5    120     11      5      0      5     11        11      27
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.6                    7.9                 7.3                  7.4
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%    6%    4%   22%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   88%   88%   22%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    6%    8%   56%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                    10    80   125    45
Left Turning Volume                         0   70   110    10
Through Volume                              5     5    10   25
Right Turning Volume                        5     5     5   10
Lane Flow Rate                            11    87   136    49
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.013 0.099 0.153 0.056
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.269 4.116 4.063  4.14
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 843   863   878   870
Service Time                            2.27 2.176 2.114  2.14
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.013 0.101 0.155 0.056
HCM Control Delay                         7.3   7.6   7.9   7.4
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.3    0.5  0.2




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment      Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX E          WARRANT 3 CHART ­ PEAK HOUR




                                                               Appendix E
                          600


                                                              2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)
HIGH VOLUME APPROACH -



                          500




                                                                            2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
     MINOR STREET


                          400




                                                                                    1 LANE & 1 LANE
                          300
                          200




                                                                                                                                150 
                                                                                                                                100 
                          100




                           400      500     600   700   800   900    1000   1100   1200   1300   1400   1500   1600   1700   1800   1900   2000   2100   2200   2300   2400   2500




                                                                    MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES -
                                                                            VEHICLES PER HOUR (VPH)

                                                           Note:150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street
                                                           approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower
                                                           threshold volume for a minor street approach with one lane.

                            LEGEND
                                 = AM
                                 = PM




                                                                                                                                                                        Warrant 3
                 FELSBURG                                                                                                                                              Peak Hour
                 H O LT &
                 ULLE VI G
  Downtown Littleton TIA, 12-310, 1/30/13
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment       Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX F          2014 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                Appendix F
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                2014 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   2.5

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                            945       27     22     678              43     61
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                     12             12
Grade (%)                                 0%                     0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2        2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1027      29     24     737              47     66
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1        2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1056         0         1459    529
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1042       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          417       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655         -          120    494
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          633       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    655         -          116    494
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -          116       -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          301       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          610       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                   40.5
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      E

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           210
HCM Control Delay (s)                   40.5       -      - 10.704        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.538       -      - 0.037         -
HCM Lane LOS                               E       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        2.835       -      - 0.114         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    2014 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                               10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):      6

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       88             22       6       20              20       22
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 96              24       7       22              22      24
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        70              34      46         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   34               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   36               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           934           1039    1562          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  988               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  986               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           929           1039    1562          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           929               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  988               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  981               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             9.3                     1.7                        0
HCM LOS                             A                       A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        949
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.314     -    9.3            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.004     - 0.126             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.013     - 0.431             -     -




                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                   2014 Total AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                      7      42      1      2     61      7      4      1      4      9         6      20
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate                8      46      1      2     66      8      4      1      4     10         7      22
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                    7.4                 7.1                  7.1
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         44%   14%    3%   26%
Volume Thru (%)                         11%   84%   87%   17%
Volume Right (%)                        44%    2%   10%   57%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                      9   50    70    35
Left Turning Volume                         1   42    61      6
Through Volume                              4     1     7   20
Right Turning Volume                        4     7     2     9
Lane Flow Rate                            10    54    76    38
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.011 0.062 0.085 0.041
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.011 4.092 4.005 3.875
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 883   874   893   915
Service Time                           2.077 2.124 2.034 1.936
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.011 0.062 0.085 0.042
HCM Control Delay                         7.1   7.4   7.4   7.1
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.2   0.3   0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2014 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                  10/23/2012




Movement                        EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     945        27     22    678       43     61
Number                             2        12       1      6       3     18
Initial Queue, veh                 0         0       0      0       0      0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                       1.00   1.00            1.00   1.00
Parking, Bus Adj                 1.00     1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00   0.00
Adj Sat Flow Rate               1863      1863  1863    1863     1863   1863
Lanes                               2        0       1      2       1      0
Capacity, veh/h                 2761        79    589  3167         0      0
Arriving On Green                0.77     0.77   0.02   0.89     0.00   0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h               3604.9     103.0 1774.0 3632.4      0.0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h           530.8     525.7   23.9 737.0       0.0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln      1862.7    1844.6 1774.0 1769.6      0.0
Q Serve(g_s), s                   3.5      3.5     0.1    1.1     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s             3.5      3.5     0.1    1.1     0.0
Proportion In Lane                       0.056 1.000            0.000
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        1426.8    1412.9 589.0 3166.7       0.0
V/C Ratio(X)                   0.372     0.372 0.041 0.233      0.000
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         1426.8    1412.9 734.0 3166.7       0.0
HCM Platoon Ratio               1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)             1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000      0.000
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh         1.5       1.5     0.9    0.3     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh           0.2       0.2    0.0    0.0      0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh        0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane Group Delay (d), s/veh      1.6       1.6    0.9    0.3      0.0
Lane Group LOS                     A         A       A      A
Approach Volume, veh/h         1057                      761        0
Approach Delay, s/veh            1.6                      0.3     0.0
Approach LOS                       A                        A
Timer
Assigned Phase                  2                   1       6
Phase Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.11                 4.89   38.00
Change Period (Y+Rc), s      4.00                4.00    4.00
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 26.00                4.00   34.00
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s 5.54                2.08    3.05
Green Extension Time (p_c) 12.48                 0.00   15.90
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Control Delay                            1.1
HCM 2010 Level of Service                           A




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                2014 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   3.5

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1029       62     78    1059              30     44
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                      12            12
Grade (%)                                 0%                      0%            0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92          0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2         2             2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1118      67     85     1151             33     48
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1         2             1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1185         0         1898    593
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1152       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          746       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    585         -            61   449
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          263       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          430       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    585         -            52   449
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            52      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          263       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          368       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.8                   97.4
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      F

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           110
HCM Control Delay (s)                   97.4       -      - 12.194        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.731       -      - 0.145         -
HCM Lane LOS                               F       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        3.947       -      - 0.504         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    2014 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                               10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):      3

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       48             11      21       28              51       88
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 52              12      23       30              55      96
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All       179             103     151         0               0      0
         Stage 1                  103               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   76               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           811             952   1430          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  921               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  947               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           798             952   1430          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           798               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  921               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  932               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             9.7                     3.2                        0
HCM LOS                             A                       A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        823
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.558     -    9.7            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.016     - 0.078             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.049     - 0.253             -     -




                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                   2014 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/22/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.7
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                     13      62      4      4     97     13      3      6      2     10        10      29
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate               14      67      4      4    105     14      3      7      2     11        11      32
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                    7.8                 7.5                  7.4
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         27%   16%     4%   20%
Volume Thru (%)                         55%   78%    85%   20%
Volume Right (%)                        18%    5%    11%   59%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop   Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                    11    79    114    49
Left Turning Volume                         6   62      97   10
Through Volume                              2     4     13   29
Right Turning Volume                        3   13       4   10
Lane Flow Rate                            12    86    124    53
Geometry Group                              1     1      1     1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.015 0.099 0.139   0.06
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.392 4.144 4.051 4.089
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes    Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 820   858    879   881
Service Time                           2.393 2.203 2.105   2.09
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.015    0.1 0.141  0.06
HCM Control Delay                         7.5   7.7    7.8   7.4
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A      A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.3     0.5  0.2




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2014 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                  10/23/2012




Movement                        EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   1029         62     78  1059        30     44
Number                            2          12      1     6        3     18
Initial Queue, veh                0           0      0     0        0      0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                       1.00   1.00            1.00   1.00
Parking, Bus Adj                 1.00     1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00   0.00
Adj Sat Flow Rate               1863      1863  1863    1863     1863   1863
Lanes                               2         0      1     2        1      0
Capacity, veh/h                 2571       155    578  3185         0      0
Arriving On Green                0.74     0.74   0.06   0.90     0.00   0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h               3481.3     209.5 1774.0 3632.4      0.0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h           598.6     587.3   84.8 1151.1      0.0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln      1862.7    1825.8 1774.0 1769.6      0.0
Q Serve(g_s), s                   4.9       5.0    0.3   1.9      0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s             4.9       5.0    0.3   1.9      0.0
Proportion In Lane                       0.115 1.000            0.000
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        1376.5    1349.2 577.7 3185.3       0.0
V/C Ratio(X)                   0.435     0.435 0.147 0.361      0.000
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         1376.5    1349.2 691.2 3185.3       0.0
HCM Platoon Ratio               1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)             1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000      0.000
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh         2.0        2.0    1.2   0.3      0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh           0.2       0.2    0.1    0.1      0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh        0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane Group Delay (d), s/veh      2.2       2.2    1.3    0.4      0.0
Lane Group LOS                     A          A      A     A
Approach Volume, veh/h         1186                     1236        0
Approach Delay, s/veh            2.2                     0.4      0.0
Approach LOS                       A                       A
Timer
Assigned Phase                  2                   1       6
Phase Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.56                 6.44   40.00
Change Period (Y+Rc), s      4.00                4.00    4.00
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 27.00                5.00   36.00
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s 6.95                2.30    3.93
Green Extension Time (p_c) 15.64                 0.04   22.33
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Control Delay                            1.3
HCM 2010 Level of Service                           A




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
Downtown Littleton Residential Redevelopment       Traffic Impact Analysis



APPENDIX G          2035 BUILDOUT LEVEL OF SERVICE SHEETS




                                                                Appendix G
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                2035 Total AM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):   3.7

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1060       30     20     760              45     65
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                     12             12
Grade (%)                                 0%                     0%             0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92     0.92           0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2        2              2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1152      33     22     826              49     71
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1        2              1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1185         0         1626    593
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1169       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          457       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    585         -            93   449
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          258       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          604       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    585         -            90   449
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            90      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          258       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          581       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                     NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.3                   64.2
HCM LOS                                    A              A                      F

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                           171
HCM Control Delay (s)                   64.2       -      - 11.391        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      0.699       -      - 0.037         -
HCM Lane LOS                               F       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        4.213       -      - 0.116         -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                         RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    2035 Total AM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                               10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     6.1

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       90             20       5       20              20       20
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 98              22       5       22              22      22
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All        65              33      44         0               0      0
         Stage 1                   33               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   32               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           941           1041    1564          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  989               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  991               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           938           1041    1564          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           938               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  989               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  988               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             9.3                     1.5                        0
HCM LOS                             A                       A                        A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        955
HCM Control Delay (s)                    7.31     -   9.3             -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.003     - 0.125             -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -     A             -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)          0.01     - 0.428             -     -




                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                             RyanG
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                   2035 Total AM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.3
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                     10      45      0      0     70      5      5      0      5      5         5      20
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate               11      49      0      0     76      5      5      0      5      5         5      22
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                            WB           NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                            EB           SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                             1            1                   1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                            NB           EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                             1            1                   1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                            SB           WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                             1            1                   1
HCM Control Delay              7.4                           7.4          7.1                   7
HCM LOS                          A                             A            A                   A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         50%   18%    0%   17%
Volume Thru (%)                          0%   82%   93%   17%
Volume Right (%)                        50%    0%    7%   67%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                    10    55    75    30
Left Turning Volume                         0   45    70     5
Through Volume                              5     0     5   20
Right Turning Volume                        5   10      0    5
Lane Flow Rate                            11    60    82    33
Geometry Group                              1     1     1    1
Degree of Utilization, X               0.012 0.068 0.091 0.035
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.002 4.108 4.015 3.818
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 884   870   891   927
Service Time                           2.073  2.14 2.044 1.885
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.012 0.069 0.092 0.036
HCM Control Delay                         7.1   7.4   7.4    7
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A    A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                   0  0.2   0.3   0.1




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                                RyanG
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2035 Total AM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                  10/23/2012




Movement                        EBT      EBR     WBL    WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   1060         30     20    760       45     65
Number                            2         12       1      6       3     18
Initial Queue, veh                0          0       0      0       0      0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                       1.00   1.00            1.00   1.00
Parking, Bus Adj                 1.00     1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00   0.00
Adj Sat Flow Rate               1863      1863  1863    1863     1863   1863
Lanes                               2        0       1      2       1      0
Capacity, veh/h                 2788        79    537  3176         0      0
Arriving On Green                0.77     0.77   0.02   0.90     0.00   0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h               3606.0     102.0 1774.0 3632.4      0.0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h           595.1     589.7   21.7 826.1       0.0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln      1862.7    1844.7 1774.0 1769.6      0.0
Q Serve(g_s), s                   4.1      4.2     0.1    1.2     0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s             4.1      4.2     0.1    1.2     0.0
Proportion In Lane                       0.055 1.000            0.000
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        1440.6    1426.6 536.9 3176.2       0.0
V/C Ratio(X)                   0.413     0.413 0.040 0.260      0.000
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         1440.6    1426.6 680.7 3176.2       0.0
HCM Platoon Ratio               1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)             1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000      0.000
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh         1.5       1.5     1.0    0.3     0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh           0.2       0.2    0.0    0.0      0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh        0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane Group Delay (d), s/veh      1.7       1.7    1.0    0.3      0.0
Lane Group LOS                     A         A       A      A
Approach Volume, veh/h         1185                      848        0
Approach Delay, s/veh            1.7                      0.3     0.0
Approach LOS                       A                        A
Timer
Assigned Phase                  2                   1       6
Phase Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 34.16                 4.84   39.00
Change Period (Y+Rc), s      4.00                4.00    4.00
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 27.00                4.00   35.00
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s 6.15                2.07    3.22
Green Extension Time (p_c) 14.17                 0.00   18.67
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Control Delay                            1.1
HCM 2010 Level of Service                           A




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                2035 Total PM
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                        10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     6

Movement                                EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT             NBL    NBR
Volume (vph)                           1155       65     80    1190              30     45
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)                   0        0      0       0               0      0
Sign Control                           Free     Free   Free    Free           Stop    Stop
Right Turn Channelized                 None     None   None    None           None    None
Storage Length                                     0     50                       0      0
Median Width                               12                      12            12
Grade (%)                                 0%                      0%            0%
Peak Hour Factor                         0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92          0.92   0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                           2      2      2         2             2      2
Movement Flow Rate                      1255      71     87     1293             33     49
Number of Lanes                             2      0      1         2             1      0

Major/Minor                           Major 1                 Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All                 0      0   1326         0         2112    664
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -         1291       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          821       -
Follow-up Headway                           -      -   2.22         -          3.52   3.32
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    517         -            44   403
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          222       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          393       -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)                     -      -      0         -             0      0
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver                     -      -    517         -            37   403
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver                     -      -      -         -            37      -
         Stage 1                            -      -      -         -          222       -
         Stage 2                            -      -      -         -          327       -

Approach                                  EB            WB                      NB
HCM Control Delay (s)                      0            0.8                   192.8
HCM LOS                                    A              A                       F

Lane                                  NBLn1     EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT
Capacity (vph)                            81
HCM Control Delay (s)                  192.8       -      - 13.366        -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                      1.006       -      - 0.168         -
HCM Lane LOS                               F       -      -      B        -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)        5.562       -      -    0.6        -




                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                    2035 Total PM
5: Bemis St & Site Access                                                                               10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh):     2.9

Movement                         EBL            EBR      NBL      NBT             SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                       50             10      20       30              55       90
Conflicting Peds.(#/hr)             0              0       0        0               0        0
Sign Control                    Stop            Stop    Free     Free            Free     Free
Right Turn Channelized          None            None    None     None            None     None
Storage Length                      0              0       0                                 0
Median Width                       12                                0               0
Grade (%)                         0%                               0%              0%
Peak Hour Factor                 0.92            0.92    0.92     0.92            0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                   2               2       2        2               2       2
Movement Flow Rate                 54              11      22       33              60      98
Number of Lanes                     1               0       0        1               1       0

Major/Minor                                                     Major 1         Major 2
Conflicting Flow Rate - All       186             109     158         0               0      0
         Stage 1                  109               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                   77               -       -         -               -      -
Follow-up Headway               3.518           3.318   2.218         -               -      -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver           803             945   1422          -               -      -
         Stage 1                  916               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  946               -       -         -               -      -
Time blocked-Platoon(%)             0               0       0         -               -      -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver           790             945   1422          -               -      -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver           790               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 1                  916               -       -         -               -      -
         Stage 2                  931               -       -         -               -      -

Approach                          EB                      NB                        SB
HCM Control Delay (s)             9.8                      3                         0
HCM LOS                             A                      A                         A

Lane                                     NBL    NBT EBLn1         SBT     SBR
Capacity (vph)                                        812
HCM Control Delay (s)                   7.571     -    9.8            -     -
HCM Lane VC Ratio                       0.015     -   0.08            -     -
HCM Lane LOS                                A     -      A            -     -
HCM 95th Percentile Queue (veh)         0.047     - 0.261             -     -




                                                                                                   Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 AWSC                                                                                   2035 Total PM
7: Lake Ave & Bemis St                                                                                     10/23/2012



Intersection
Intersection Delay (sec/veh)    7.7
Intersection LOS                  A
Movement                       EBL     EBT    EBR    WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL       SBT     SBR
Volume (vph)                     10      70      5      5    110     15      5      5      5     15        10      30
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92      0.92    0.92
Heavy Vehicles(%)                 2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2         2       2
Movement Flow Rate               11      76      5      5    120     16      5      5      5     16        11      33
Number of Lanes                   0       1      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0         1       0

Approach                       EB                     WB                  NB                   SB
Opposing Approach              WB                     EB                  SB                   NB
Opposing Lanes                   1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Left      SB                     NB                  EB                   WB
Conflicting Lanes Left           1                      1                   1                    1
Conflicting Approach Right     NB                     SB                  WB                   EB
Conflicting Lanes Right          1                      1                   1                    1
HCM Control Delay              7.7                    7.9                 7.5                  7.5
HCM LOS                          A                      A                   A                    A

Lane                                  NBLn1 EBLn1 WBLn1 SBLn1
Volume Left (%)                         33%   12%    4%   27%
Volume Thru (%)                         33%   82%   85%   18%
Volume Right (%)                        33%    6%   12%   55%
Sign Control                            Stop  Stop  Stop  Stop
Traffic Volume by Lane                    15    85   130    55
Left Turning Volume                         5   70   110    10
Through Volume                              5     5    15   30
Right Turning Volume                        5   10      5   15
Lane Flow Rate                            16    92   141    60
Geometry Group                              1     1     1     1
Degree of Utilization, X                0.02 0.107  0.16  0.07
Departure Headway, Hd                  4.377 4.162 4.074  4.19
Convergence(Y/N)                         Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes
Capacity                                 822   851   872   860
Service Time                           2.379 2.237 2.141 2.191
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.019 0.108 0.162  0.07
HCM Control Delay                         7.5   7.7   7.9   7.5
HCM Lane LOS                                A     A     A     A
HCM 95th Percentile Queue                0.1   0.4    0.6  0.2




                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                       2035 Total PM - Signal
3: Bemis St & Littleton Blvd                                                                  10/23/2012




Movement                        EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT      NBL    NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   1155         65     80  1190        30     45
Number                            2          12      1     6        3     18
Initial Queue, veh                0           0      0     0        0      0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)                       1.00   1.00            1.00   1.00
Parking, Bus Adj                 1.00     1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00   0.00
Adj Sat Flow Rate               1863      1863  1863    1863     1863   1863
Lanes                               2         0      1     2        1      0
Capacity, veh/h                 2579       145    533  3185         0      0
Arriving On Green                0.74     0.74   0.06   0.90     0.00   0.00
Sat Flow, veh/h               3496.3     196.4 1774.0 3632.4      0.0
Grp Volume(v), veh/h           668.5     657.6   87.0 1293.5      0.0
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln      1862.7    1828.1 1774.0 1769.6      0.0
Q Serve(g_s), s                   5.9       5.9    0.3   2.3      0.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s             5.9       5.9    0.3   2.3      0.0
Proportion In Lane                       0.107 1.000            0.000
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        1374.8    1349.2 533.2 3185.3       0.0
V/C Ratio(X)                   0.486     0.487 0.163 0.406      0.000
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         1374.8    1349.2 600.7 3185.3       0.0
HCM Platoon Ratio               1.00      1.00   1.00   1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)             1.000     1.000 1.000 1.000      0.000
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh         2.1        2.1    1.5   0.3      0.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh           0.3       0.3    0.1    0.1      0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh        0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane Group Delay (d), s/veh      2.4       2.4    1.6    0.4      0.0
Lane Group LOS                     A          A      A     A
Approach Volume, veh/h         1326                     1380        0
Approach Delay, s/veh            2.4                     0.5      0.0
Approach LOS                       A                       A
Timer
Assigned Phase                  2                   1       6
Phase Duration (G+Y+Rc), s 33.52                 6.48   40.00
Change Period (Y+Rc), s      4.00                4.00    4.00
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s 28.00                4.00   36.00
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s 7.89                2.31    4.30
Green Extension Time (p_c) 16.97                 0.03   24.75
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Control Delay                            1.4
HCM 2010 Level of Service                           A




                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                                   RyanG
                                                   LITTLETON STATION




                         at
                  Littleton Station




ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
    May 3, 2013




                                2000 S. Colorado Blvd., Suite 1-10500
                                         Denver, CO 80222

                                           303.865.5430
                                                                                                  LITTLETON STATION




TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                            PAGE
1. Executive Summary ...................................................................... 3-4


2. Market Overview .......................................................................... 5-7


3. Metro Denver Apartment Market .............................................. 8-9


4. Littleton Apartment Market .....................................................10-13


5. Downtown Littleton Commercial Real Estate ........................ 14-16


6. Demographic Analysis .............................................................. 18-19


7. Conclusion................................................................................. 20 -21


List Of Appendices
Appendix A                 Littleton Apartment Profile Pages
Appendix B                 Littleton Available Office/Commercial Space
Appendix C                 Littleton Available Retail Space
Appendix D                 Littleton Demographic Report




                                                           2
               LITTLETON STATION




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY




        3
                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                      LITTLETON STATION


The purpose of the Broadstone at Littleton Station economic analysis is to provide
evidence that 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard and 5759 S. Bemis Street, zoned B -2 and R
-3 respectively, should be rezoned to allow for multifamily residential luxury apart-
ment use. The Littleton Boulevard Corridor identifies the Arapahoe County Sheriff's
Facility (also known as 2100 W Littleton Boulevard) as the closest redevelopment
site to the Littleton Downtown Light Rail Station and therefore a key `Development
Catalyst' site for the corridor. Ideally located 500 feet from the Downtown Littleton
Light Rail Station and 500 feet from Historic Main Street, this site could accommo-
date future housing needs of Littleton's estimated 2013 population of 43,091.
The following economic analysis will provide an overview of the Metro Denver econ-
omy, primarily focusing on anticipated population and job growth. Next, the report
will highlight the current state of Metro Denver's multifamily apartment market.
This data will then be applied in the context of Littleton's multifamily apartment
market. By analyzing the current apartment supply in Littleton in addition to future
pipeline activity, we can accurately assess if the product type Alliance Residential is
proposing would meet the current demand in the City of Littleton. In an effort to
capture the full potential of the site, the analysis will also include examination of
Downtown Littleton's commercial real estate vitality.
The goal will be to determine if the demand for housing outweighs the demand for
commercial use at the site. Through our findings which are described in the follow-
ing report, Alliance Residential concludes that a multifamily residential luxury apart-
ment is strongly justified at the site which is comprised of 2100 W. Littleton Boule-
vard and 5759 S. Bemis Street. Due to the current supply of new luxury apartments
in Littleton, the health of Littleton's commercial real estate market, the goals of the
Comprehensive Plan, the Sterne Park Neighborhood Plan, the Littleton Boulevard
Corridor Study, and the overall projections for Metro Denver's economy as a whole,
a residential community located within walking distance from Downtown Littleton
would be the best use of the site.




                                          4
           LITTLETON STATION




MARKET
OVERVIEW




   5
                     METRO DENVER MARKET OVERVIEW                    LITTLETON STATION


The Metro Denver Economic Development Corporation stated that Metro Denver
will outperform the nation as a whole during 2013. According to Metro Denver EDC's
Chief Economist Patty Silverstein, the seven-county region will achieve full economic
recovery in 2013­ meaning that all jobs lost during the recent recession will be re-
gained­ and Metro Denver will begin a new growth path. Strong job growth was ev-
ident in Metro Denver in 2012, as 37,300 jobs were added. Overall, employment was
up 2.7 percent in 2012 and is predicted to grow by 2 percent in 2013. This strong em-
ployment growth has continued to attract new residents to Colorado, which will
help keep the residential real estate market healthy, as demand increases for houses
and apartments.
Metro Denver EDC anticipates the region's population to grow by 1.4 percent in
2013, a rate much higher than the 1 percent projected for the nation. In fact, Colora-
do was the seventh-fastest growing state in terms of population between July 2011
and July 2012. Due to the state's unique assets; a good quality of life, educated work-
force, and low business costs, it will continue to attract new residents and compa-
nies. Governor Hickenlooper and other local economic development officials have
made a strong push to attract new companies to Colorado. In addition to a talent-
ed labor pool, the Denver area offers low corporate and individual tax rates, and
affordable office space.
Governor Hickenlooper continues to stress that Metro Denver attracted more 25 -to-
34-year old workers than any city from 2009 to 2011. In direct correlation to the
above mentioned statistic, Witten Advisors recently published a report in the fourth
quarter of 2012 which stated where the active renter wants to live by generation.
The categories included, City-Downtown, City-Residential Area, Suburban Mixed-
Use, Suburban Neighborhood-Households Only, Small Town, and Rural. Of those cat-
egories, the most desired area to live was Suburban Mixed-Use. More specifically,
the number one place Generation X residents wanted to live was in the Suburban
Mixed-Use locations.
Apartment developers have reacted to Denver's strong economy in form of a very
strong pipeline in Metro Denver. According to a second quarter report released by
Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, the pipeline is growing rapidly
with 12,000 units under construction and another 18,000 apartments in the planning
stages. Despite the new apartments becoming available, vacancy continues to drop
and rents continue to increase, a strong indication that Metro Denver has a great
deal of pent up demand for apartments.

                                          6
                    METRO DENVER MARKET OVERVIEW                   LITTLETON STATION


Many fundamentals support apartment demand, including shrinking homeowner-
ship rates, ballooning student loans, and a demographic represented in large part by
the Echo and Boomer generations who are demanding the conveniences of apart-
ment living. All of which will continue to keep absorption rates above average over
the next few years.




                                         7
               LITTLETON STATION




METRO DENVER
 APARTMENT
  MARKET




     8
                   METRO DENVER APARTMENT MARKET                    LITTLETON STATION




It was reported in `Apartment Insights' Statistic/Trends first quarter report for 2013
that Metro Denver's vacancy rate for stabilized communities, having 50 units or
more, decreased to 4.78%.


Absorption was strong with a gain of 914 units. This increased the annual gain to
3,436 units, the highest level in seven quarters.


Metro Denver's gross rent for stabilized properties increased $14 to $994 this quar-
ter. This is a strong $61 annual gain, and 6.5% higher than a year ago.


Apartment Insights notes the upward growth of Denver's average rent is approach-
ing the $1,000 benchmark and should surpass it over the next quarter or two.


When comparing data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and Apartment Insights
over a 10 year period, studies show that monthly rent has actually decreased in rela-
tion to personal income levels.


The Consumer Price Index adjusted average rent has decreased ­5.4% since 2000.
Although monthly rent has increased from $792 in 2002 to $955 in 2012, when adjust-
ed for inflation CPI adjusted rent has actually decreased from $1,009 in 2000 to $955
in 2012.


Widespread higher rents and lower vacancies are encouraging developers to push
forward with new construction in many locations.




                                          9
            LITTLETON STATION




LITTLETON
APARTMENT
 MARKET




    10
                         LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                   LITTLETON STATION



Based on data provided by Apartment Insights, the City of Littleton currently has 26
apartment communities that have 50 units or more. Of those 26 communities, 5 are
rent restricted or Section 8 housing. When analyzing the 21 communities that are
100% market rate, the total number of units available is 3,927. The average statistics
of the 21 market rate communities located in Littleton are as follows:
   21 Total Properties
   3,927 Total Units
   1982 Average Age of the Property
   C Average Property Class
   826 Average Unit Size
   $969 Average Monthly Rent Per Unit
   $1.19 Average Rent Per Square Foot
   96% Occupancy Rate


The data, which is provided on the following pages, clearly indicates that the City of
Littleton's apartment supply is limited especially when considering product built
within the last decade.
   2 Communities Built After 2002 (5151 Downtown Littleton built in 2009 and Alta
   Aspen Grove built in 2011)


Larger properties require long term institutional investors with higher maintenance
standards and strict resident qualifying criteria. Therefore, properties of 300 units or
more of any age retain their value the longest. For example, in Littleton all of the
properties over 300 units achieve a Property Class of B or better regardless of the
age of the property.
   Only 3 Communities in Littleton have 3oo+ units
   187 units Average community size




                                           11
                       LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                       LITTLETON STATION



Alliance would like to note that the original and current institutional investor of Pin-
nacle at Mountain Gate since 1999 is the same investor who has partnered with Alli-
ance for Broadstone at Littleton Station, and with others in Denver and around the
U.S. Investors of this caliber believe in building quality products that retain their val-
ue and have a positive and lasting affect on the community.


Lastly, in order for Littleton to attract a balanced demographic to its community,
residents must have options in terms of available housing stock. The only apartment
community with 50 units or more located in Downtown Littleton is subsidized rent-
als. Therefore, the need for an institutional market rate community within walking
distance to Downtown Littleton is evident. With the cultural shift occurring among
young couples and empty-nesters away from ownership this provides an opportuni-
ty for Littleton to capture two growing demographics.




                                           12
                                  LITTLETON APARTMENT MARKET                              LITTLETON STATION



No. Property Name                 Address                         Year Con- Total Units Average Average % Vacancy
                                                                  structed              Rent/Unit SF

 1    5151 Downtown Littleton       5151 S. Rio Grande St.          2009       350       1221       954       10%

 2        Alta Aspen Grove         7317 S. Platte River Pky.        2011       280       1457      1002       9%
 3            The Banac              293 W. Powers Pl.              1960       98        811        712       2%
 4           Broadridge             6990 S. Bannock St.             1965       54        1091      1241       4%

 5       Camden Centennial         2961 W. Centennial Dr.           1985       276       996        755       3%

 6          Canyon Crest             5754 S. Lowell Wy.             1970       90        945       1020       2%
 7      Chateau Lynnewood          5579 S. Windermere St.           1972       56        700        559       2%
 8      Columbine Meadows           8214 W. Ken Caryl Pl.           1987       277       1128      1456       3%
 9     Concordia on the Lake        6155 S. Ammons Wy.              2001       217      2002        926       1%
10    Courtyards-Olde Littleton      2100 W. Berry Ave.             1984       97        758        716       3%
 11         Gallup House              5967 S. Gallup St.            1970       139       732        629       5%

12           Monte Vista             501 W. Mineral Ave.            1995       219       1335      888        6%
13        Parkland Square          750 W. Belleview Ave.            1973       102       651        527       2%
14    Pinnacle at Mountain Gate       7501 S. Utica Dr.             1999      496        1259      949        4%

15            Riverside               4957 S. Prince Ct.            1986       248      1026        801       2%
16        South Glenn Place            6541 S. Vine St.             1970       136       728        479       2%

17    Southview Place Towers       5820 S. Windermere St.           1972       259       774        751       2%
18          Sycamore Hill           5915 S. Sycamore St.            1985       50        783        731       4%
19      Terra Vista at the Park      5341 S. Federal Cir.           1984       324       869        791       5%
20             Tiburon             700 W. Belleview Ave.            1999       83        898        777       4%
21          Windermere              5519 S. Windermere              1961       76        776       686        4%
22          Alyson Court*             5807 S. Gallup St.            1983       60        845       600        0%
23          Amity Plaza*            200 W. Sterne Pkwy.             1978       180       746        565       0%
24         Bradley House*              5844 S. Datura               1975       77        796        565       0%
25          Main Street*              2350 W. Main St.              1999       50        722        703       2%
26          Power Circle*              183 Powers Cir.              1961       69        629        733       48%

      * Subsidized Housing/Rent Restrictions
                                                             13
                  LITTLETON STATION




 DOWNTOWN LITTLETON
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
       MARKET




          14
                    DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                                  REAL ESTATE MARKET                         LITTLETON STATION

CBRE Global Research and Consulting provided office and retail property statistics
within a one mile radius of Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station. A summary of
their findings is as follows:
OFFICE PROPERTY STATS:
    Absorption            YTD         2012       QTD          2012 2Q
Net Absorption           2,750       -3,960     -2,615         4,903
Gross Absorption         7,827       19,396      1,849         6,042
Leasing Activity         7,327       18,531      1,849         3,632
Deliveries                 0            0          0             0

                            Direct                   Sublet                  Total
      Vacancy          SF             %          SF           %           SF           %
Vacant               36,018         20.3%         0          0.0%       36,018       20.3%
Vacant Available     36,018         20.3%         0          0.0%       36,018       20.3%
Available            46,457         26.2%       1,768        1.0%       48,225       27.2%

                                     Direct
 Asking Rent       # Spcs         Avg             Total
Full Service
Gross               21           $15.15       $10.48-$20.00
Modified Gross       4           $14.05       $9.60-$18.22
Triple Net           5           $21.98       $11.00-$25.00
RETAIL PROPERTY STATS:

  Absorption        YTD           2012         QTD           2012
Net Absorption     -8,329        -28,633      -8,175         -100

Gross Absorp-      2,858         5,938           0           1,479
Leasing Activity   2,858         3,863           0           1,479
Deliveries           0             0             0             0

                         Direct                   Sublet             Total
   Vacancy          SF             %            SF         %     SF        %
Vacant            51,766         15.5%           0       0.00% 51,766    15.5%
Vacant Available 51,766          15.5%           0       0.00% 51,766    15.5%
Available        101,664         30.5%           0       0.00% 101,664   30.5%

                                     Direct
  Asking Rent      # Spcs           Avg              Total
Full Service
Gross                1             $10.00          $10.00
Modified Gross       3             $13.95      $10.00-$22.00
Triple Net           17            $16.01       $8.00-$28.00
                                                15
                   DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                              REAL ESTATE MARKET                      LITTLETON STATION




Commercial Office Space Summary :
   The absorption data indicates that from the second half of 2012 to the current
   quarter, office/commercial vacancies have increased significantly as a result of
   businesses moving out.
   The 27.2% vacancy rate reflects currently vacant uncommitted space as well as
   space with tenants that have given notice to move out. Therefore, the total va-
   cancy rate for office/commercial space within one mile of the Downtown Littleton
   Light Rail Station is 27.2%.
   The 27.2% vacancy rate represents approximately 48,225 SF of vacant office space
   within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station.


Retail Space Summary:
   The absorption data indicates that from the second half of 2012 to the current
   quarter, retail vacancies have increased significantly as a result of businesses mov-
   ing out.
   The 30.5% vacancy rate reflects currently vacant uncommitted space as well as
   space with tenants that have given notice to move out. Therefore, the total va-
   cancy rate for retail within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light rail
   Station for this submarket is 30.5%.
   The 30.5% vacancy rate represents approximately 101,664 SF of vacant retail space
   within a one mile radius of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station.




                                           16
                   DOWNTOWN LITTLETON COMMERCIAL
                             REAL ESTATE MARKET                      LITTLETON STATION




The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study:
    The Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study states that under current zoning the 2100
   W. Littleton Boulevard site allows some commercial uses incompatible with the
   redevelopment plan.
   The County's interests will be to sell the property for its maximum value.
   The district should allow both higher density multifamily and supportive commer-
   cial development compatible with higher volume commercial corridors and transit
   oriented development.


Comprehensive Plan:
   Land Use Policy 4 states it is undesirable and unnecessary to introduce additional
   commercial land use in the interior of Progress, Ketring, or Sterne Park neighbor-
   hoods.
   Commercial land uses should be kept along the major arterials of Main Street,
   Broadway, and Santa Fe.


The City's redevelopment tools, including the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study and
the Comprehensive Plan, encourage that the 2100 W Littleton Boulevard site be uti-
lized for higher density multifamily residential use. Since 2002, the purpose of this
guidance has been to concentrate retail on Main Street and to support its success
through multifamily density within walking distance to downtown.




                                          17
              LITTLETON STATION




DEMOGRAPHIC
 ANALYSIS




     18
                            DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS                    LITTLETON STATION




A Demographic Report on Littleton was provided by CBRE Global Research and Con-
sulting and from that report the following statistics have been highlighted as they
relate to the economic vitality of Alliance's proposed project.
2013 Estimated Statistics for Littleton:
   Based on the 2013 estimated household incomes, income ranging between
   $50,000 to $74,999 is the most common income bracket in Littleton. The antici-
   pated average household income of Broadstone at Littleton Station residents will
   be $59,914, which falls within Littleton's most prominent income range.
   The majority of households are 1 person and 2 person households.
   The majority of households have 1 vehicle.
   The majority of the population is between ages 45 to 64 (29.4%) and ages 25 to
   44 (24.3%). These are the two target demographics for Broadstone at Littleton
   Station, empty-nesters/baby boomers and young professionals/emerging families
   respectively.
   The majority of housing is 1 unit detached. Multifamily housing of 50 units or
   more comprises only 5.5%, therefore indicating the lack of institutional product.
   The majority of housing structures were built between 1970 and 1980, with only
   2.5% built in 2005 or later.
   Only 5.8% of the employed population over 16 years of age utilizes public trans-
   portation to get to work. Our project will help reverse this under utilized public
   transportation statistic.
   The highest percentage of families are married couples with no own children.
   This is the emerging family target demographic for Broadstone at Littleton Sta-
   tion.




                                           19
             LITTLETON STATION




CONCLUSION




    20
                                   CONCLUSION                        LITTLETON STATION




 The results of the economic analysis indicate that 2100 W. Littleton Boulevard and
5759 S. Bemis Street should be rezoned to allow for multifamily residential luxury
apartment use. As identified in the Littleton Boulevard Corridor Study, the above
mentioned site is a `Development Catalyst'. The proximity to the Downtown Little-
ton Light Rail Station and the walkability to Littleton's Historic Main Street are im-
portant attributes and justify higher density multifamily compatible with transit ori-
ented development.
Based on the high vacancy rate of office and retail properties within a one mile radi-
us of the Downtown Littleton Light Rail Station, utilizing 2100 W Littleton Boulevard
as commercial space that will compete against Historic Downtown Littleton is not
beneficial. Rather, the economic vitality of office and retail property in Littleton
could be strengthened by the introduction of additional residents into Downtown
Littleton through a higher density apartment community. Based on the underwrit-
ten rents of the proposed unit mix and the assumption that individuals will spend
30% of their income on housing and 15% on discretionary income, the projected dis-
cretionary income for Broadstone at Littleton Station, if the project was 95% occu-
pied, would be $2,475,930 annually. It is a reasonable expectation that a portion of
that total would be spent directly in Littleton, and more specifically Historic Down-
town Littleton.
It is evident that the current supply of apartments in Littleton does not provide an
adequate range of options to accommodate the demand of residents who would
like to live in Littleton and benefit from all the conveniences that the City has to
offer. There is a clear demand for luxury, high-end apartments and yet there is only
one Class A Property over 50 units in all of Littleton (the other A property is age re-
stricted). The demand of empty nesters and young couples living in Littleton, as well
as emerging demand from population growth and in-migration of the same demo-
graphic provides an opportunity for the City of Littleton to implement a plan that
has been envisioned since 2002.



                                          21
                   LITTLETON STATION




     EXHIBIT A
LITTLETON APARTMENT
   PROFILE PAGES




         22
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
              5151 DOWNTOWN LITTLETON                                             5151 S. Rio Grande St.               Total Units                 350
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-16-2-25-001
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.62296
                                                                                  Phone:             (303) 797-7600 Longitude:              -105.01206
                                                                                  Classification:                   B Map Book:                 343 R:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              122.5125 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       13.08 Census Tract:               65.01
                                                                                  Density:                     26.76 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: Alexan                    RD NS/ EW:           5663/ 5130
                                                                                  Downtown Littleton
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  2009 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                39
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm & Stuc Covered:                        74
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                        441
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      9 Parking/Unit                1.58
                                                                                  Stories                           3 Parking/Bed                    1
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               333913

              OWNER                               MANAGER                                     POLICIES                            LAST SALE
SPUS6 Littleton LP                    Riverstone Residential Group                 Leases              8-12 month    Amount               $60,000,000
 (CBRE Investments)                    (Riverstone Residential Group)              Applicant Fee              $45    Date                  05/24/2012
800 Boylston St.                      5575 DTC Pky.                                Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit              $171,429
20th Floor                            Suite 250
Boston, MA 02199                      Greenwood Village, CO 80111                  Pet Dep.         $250R; $250N     Price/SF                 $178.87
(617) 425-2842                        (303) 217-8400                               Pet Charge/Mo              $30
           UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio         BBQ                                          Util          Meter
Air Cond          Roman Tub              Billiards                                    Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Slf-Cln Oven           Clubhouse                                    Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Storage Room           Computer Room                                Water:         Indiv
Dishwasher        T1 Opt                 Htd Swim Pool                                Util        System
Disposal          W/D Hook-up            Kitchen                                      Heat:          Indiv
Fireplace Some    Walk-ins               Laundry Room                                 Cool:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref     Washer/Dryer           Weight/Exer Rm                               Hot Wa:        Indiv
Ice Maker                                                                                        Paid By
Kit Island Some                                                                       Util      Own Res Fuel:
Microwave                                                                             Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                      Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           10% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           13% Rent Restricted:                            0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    10%                                                Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      7%                                                Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                     COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                     Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF                Low Rent   /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: $525 off move-in with 12
                                                                                                           month lease.
A     Flat 1   1/1       667    U     $1,005 $0      $1.51 $1.51                  $1,005     $250/250
B     Flat 21 1 / 1      667    U     $985   $1,005 $1.48 $1.49                   $985       $250/250      INCOME: Rents increase $150 with covered
                                                                                                           (tuck-under garage) parking and $120 with
C     Flat 77 1 / 1      742    U     $949   $999    $1.28 $1.31                  $949       $250/250
                                                                                                           detached garage.
D     Flat 2   1/1       768    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.37 $1.40                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           UTILITIES: Fireplaces are electric (13% of
E     Flat 66 1 / 1      768    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.37 $1.40                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           units have them).
F     Flat 1   1/1       813    U     $1,099 $0      $1.35 $1.35                  $1,099     $250/250
                                                                                                           MISC: Each unit has either a stacked or
G     Flat 4   1/1       852    U     $1,049 $1,099 $1.23 $1.26                   $1,049     $250/250
                                                                                                           side-by-side washer/dryer. Units have
H     Flat 29 2 / 2      1020   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.35 $1.38                   $1,379     $250/250      built-in computer desks and granite
I     Flat 29 2 / 2      1137   U     $1,250 $1,300 $1.10 $1.12                   $1,250     $250/250      countertops. Has an onsite yoga center and
                                                                                                           dog wash/park.
J     Flat 14 2 / 2      1150   U     $1,250 $1,300 $1.09 $1.11                   $1,250     $250/250
K     Flat 12 2 / 2      1151   U     $1,401 $1,451 $1.22 $1.24                   $1,401     $250/250
L     Flat 20 2 / 2      1160   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.19 $1.21                   $1,379     $250/250
M     Flat 47 2 / 2      1172   U     $1,379 $1,429 $1.18 $1.20                   $1,379     $250/250
N     Flat 3   3/2       1293   U     $1,650 $1,700 $1.28 $1.30                   $1,650     $250/250
O     Flat 24 3 / 2      1293   U     $1,650 $1,700 $1.28 $1.30                   $1,650     $250/250
           350           954          $1,197         $1.26 $1.28
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                    ALTA ASPEN GROVE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                 7317 S. Platte River Pky.            Total Units                 280
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-29-3-03-001
                                                                                 County:                   Arapahoe Latitude:                39.58615
                                                                                 Phone:             (303) 798-3600 Longitude:               -105.0276
                                                                                 Classification:                   A Map Book:                     0:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:               143.3902 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                 Acres:                        16.99 Census Tract:              56.23
                                                                                 Density:                      16.48 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                 Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5924/ 5213
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                   2011 Attached Garage:              187
                                                                                 Style:                      Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Construction:          Wood Side Covered:                          0
                                                                                 Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                           371
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                     17 Parking/Unit                1.99
                                                                                 Stories                       2 & 3 Parking/Bed                  1.3
                                                                                 Rentable SF:                280448

             OWNER                              MANAGER                                      POLICIES                            LAST SALE
Wood Partners                        Greystar Real Estate Partners                Leases              6-12 month    Amount                             N/A
 (Wood Partners)                     (Greystar Real Estate Partners )             Applicant Fee              $45    Date
5299 DTC Blvd.                       1875 Lawrence St.                            Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit
Suite 700                            Suite 650
Greenwood Village, CO 80111          Denver, CO 80202                             Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N     Price/SF
(303) 468-7450                       (303) 308-9000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $35
           UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Microwave              BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Air Cond          Priv Bal/Patio         Billiards                                   Gas:           Indiv
Attach Gar Some Roman Tub                Clubhouse                                   Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Slf-Cln Oven           Computer Room                               Water:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                 Controlled Entry                            Util        System
Dishwasher        W/D Hook-up            Htd Swim Pool                               Heat:          Indiv
Disposal          Walk-ins               Kitchen                                     Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace Some    Washer/Dryer           Spa                                         Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                                         Paid By
Ice Maker                                                                            Util      Own Res Fuel:
Kitchen Island                                                                       Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                     Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                            9% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                            5% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    10%                                               Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     46%                                               Sewer:           X
                                                                                     Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
               Beds/      Net      Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths       SF       Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 17 1 / 1       695      U     $975   $0      $1.40 $1.40               $1,050     $200/200     INCOME: Rents increase $150 with optional
B     Flat 9   1/1        704      U     $1,050 $0      $1.49 $1.49               $1,099     $200/200     attached garage.
C     Flat 24 1 / 1       786      U     $1,325 $1,505 $1.69 $1.80                $1,209     $200/200     UTILITIES: Aquatherm heating.
D     Flat 17 1 / 1       788      U     $1,085 $0      $1.38 $1.38               $1,330     $200/200
                                                                                                          MISC: 18 total floor plans, with Models C, L
E     Flat 9   1/1        833      U     $1,085 $0      $1.30 $1.30               $1,175     $200/200     and O unit sizes averaged. Model I is a one
F     Flat 14 1 / 1       893      U     $1,350 $0      $1.51 $1.51               $1,285     $200/200     bedroom with den. Models G, J, and 11 O
                                                                                                          have attached garages included in rent.
G     Flat 34 1 / 1       942      U     $1,280 $0      $1.36 $1.36               $1,299     $200/200
                                                                                                          Models C and K-L have attached garage
H     Flat 23 1 / 1       995      U     $1,340 $1,570 $1.35 $1.46                $1,380     $200/200     option. Units have crown molding. Has
I     Flat 20 2 / 1       901      U     $1,175 $0      $1.30 $1.30               $1,300     $300/200     outdoor fireplace.
J     Flat 34 2 / 1.75    1222     U     $1,825 $0      $1.49 $1.49               $1,499     $300/200
K     Flat 11 2 / 2       1135     U     $1,800 $0      $1.59 $1.59               $1,760     $300/200
L     Flat 32 2 / 2       1143     U     $1,625 $0      $1.42 $1.42               $1,850     $200/200
M     Flat 20 2 / 2       1179     U     $1,575 $1,620 $1.34 $1.35                $1,500     $200/200
N     Flat 4   3/2        1349     U     $1,800 $0      $1.33 $1.33               $1,760     $400/200
O     Flat 12 3 / 2       1460     U     $2,225 $2,325 $1.52 $1.56                $2,250     $400/200
           280            1,002          $1,436         $1.43 $1.45
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                     1Q 2013
                              BANAC, THE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                    293 W. Powers Pl.                   Total Units                  98
                                                                                    Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-15-3-09-003
                                                                                    County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61576
                                                                                    Phone:            (720) 230-9444 Longitude:              -104.99194
                                                                                    Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 T:
                                                                                    Prop. Rank:              63.9847 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                    Acres:                       2.00 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                    Density:                    48.93 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                    Past Name: Park Vista               RD NS/ EW:           5714/ 5022
                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                    Year Built:                 1960 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                    Style:                    Midrise Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Construction:               Brick Covered:                       17
                                                                                    Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        141
                                                                                    Rental Bldgs                     4 Parking/Unit                1.61
                                                                                    Stories                 3.5 & 4.5 Parking/Bed                  1.02
                                                                                    Rentable SF:               69769

               OWNER                                    MANAGER                                 POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Sugarberry Holdings LLC                    Larry Page                                Leases                12 month   Amount                $4,185,000
 (Page, Larry)                              (Page, Larry)                            Applicant Fee              $30   Date                  02/11/2009
4 Haystack Row                             4 Haystack Row                            Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $42,704
Cherry Hill, CO 80113                      Cherry Hill, CO 80113
(303) 796-7080                             (303) 796-7080                            Pet Dep.                $200R    Price/SF                  $59.98
                                                                                     Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                           COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                     Controlled Entry                           Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                 Laundry Room                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher                                                                              Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                           Util        System
Priv Bal/Patio Some                                                                     Heat:         Boiler
Storage Room                                                                            Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                  Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                                  Paid By
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                              2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Heat:       X X Gas
Prev Qtr                              2% Rent Restricted:                            0% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       2%                                                Hot Water: X X Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        6%                                                Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                        ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                        Water:      X
                                                                                        Sewer:      X
                                                                                        Trash:      X
                                             UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                      Beds/   Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths   SF     Unf    Low    High $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   12   1/1     585    U      $675   $800 $1.15 $1.26                 $675        $300/0      INCOME: Rents increase $35 with covered
B         Flat   6    1/1     631    U      $675   $800 $1.07 $1.17                 $675        $300/0      parking.
C         Flat   20   1/1     681    U      $675   $800 $0.99 $1.08                 $675        $300/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat   4    1/1     700    U      $675   $800 $0.96 $1.05                 $675        $300/0
                                                                                                            MISC: A significant rehab was completed
E         Flat   16   2/1     683    U      $775   $950 $1.13 $1.26                 $775        $300/0      2nd quarter 2009, with the exception of 30
F         Flat   16   2/1     720    U      $775   $950 $1.08 $1.20                 $775        $300/0      units which are being renovated for water
                                                                                                            pipe and heat replacement. The former
G         Flat   13   2/1     765    U      $775   $950 $1.01 $1.13                 $775        $300/0
                                                                                                            "New Yorker" and "Executive" apartments
H         Flat   10   2/1     875    U      $775   $950 $0.89 $0.99                 $775        $300/0      (38 units built in 1959) were added to the
I         Flat   1    3/2     1400   U      $1,050 $0    $0.75 $0.75                $1,050      $300/0      unit mix 2nd quarter 2009. These 38 units (3
                                                                                                            Model D and all Models A, G and H) are
                 98           712           $735         $1.03 $1.14
                                                                                                            included in the Last Sale price. Park Vista
                                                                                                            (60 units) was built in 1961 and the Year
                                                                                                            Built shown is a weighted average.
1Q 2013                                                       © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                   1Q 2013
                                BROADRIDGE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                        6990 S. Bannock St.                Total Units                  54
                                                                                        Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-27-2-22-001
                                                                                        County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.591916
                                                                                        Phone:            (303) 795-5300 Longitude:           -104.992735
                                                                                        Classification:                 B Map Book:                 374 B:
                                                                                        Prop. Rank:              87.4815 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                        Acres:                       4.16 Census Tract:              66.03
                                                                                        Density:                    12.99 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                        Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5883/ 5026
                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                        Year Built:                 1965 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                        Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                        Construction:               Brick Covered:                      12
                                                                                        Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           63
                                                                                        Rental Bldgs                    8 Parking/Unit                1.39
                                                                                        Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 0.58
                                                                                        Rentable SF:               67018

               OWNER                                       MANAGER                                  POLICIES                         LAST SALE
Broadridge Apartments LLC                     Broadridge Apartments LLC                  Leases                 6 month Amount                $2,100,000
 (Princeton Investments LLC)                   (Princeton Investments LLC)               Applicant Fee              $20 Date                  08/01/1995
7315 E. Orchard Rd.                           7315 E. Orchard Rd.                        Pets Allowed              None Price/unit               $38,889
Suite 250                                     Suite 250
Greenwood Village, CO 80111                   Greenwood Village, CO 80111                Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                  $31.33
(303) 792-2100                                (303) 792-2100                             Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                             COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                        Htd Swim Pool                               Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                                                                Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans Some                                                                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                    Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                                                                              Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                               Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                              Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                                                                                Hot Wa:        Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                                 Paid By
W/D Hook-up                                                                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
Washer/Dryer                                                                                Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                            Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                              AFFORDABLE STATUS                        Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                                 4% Gov't Subsidized:                            0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                                 2% Rent Restricted:                             0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                          2%                                                 Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                           6%                                                 Sewer:           X
                                                                                            Trash:           X
                                                 UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                      Beds/     Net     Fur             Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths     SF      Unf    Low     High    $/SF Av. $/SF              Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   8    2/1       899     U      $950    $0      $1.06 $1.06                $950       $500/0     INCOME: Rents increase $25 with covered
B         Flat   24   2/2       1023    U      $950    $0      $0.93 $0.93                $950       $500/0     parking.
C         TH     12   3 / 1.5   1472    U      $1,200 $1,300 $0.82 $0.85                  $1,200     $500/0     UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
D         TH     10   3/2       1761    U      $1,300 $1,400 $0.74 $0.77                  $1,300     $500/0     charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                                to residents.
                 54             1,241          $1,070          $0.87 $0.88
1Q 2013                                                           © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                    PROPERTY INFORMATION
                   CAMDEN CENTENNIAL                                            2961 W. Centennial Dr.             Total Units                 276
                                                                                Littleton,CO 80123                 APN:           2077-17-2-18-001
                                                                                County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.6197
                                                                                Phone:            (303) 795-3018 Longitude:               -105.025
                                                                                Classification:                 B Map Book:                 343 Q:
                                                                                Prop. Rank:             100.2739 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                Acres:                       9.10 Census Tract:               56.2
                                                                                Density:                    30.33 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                Past Name: Park at                 RD NS/ EW:           5686/ 5199
                                                                                Centennial
                                                                                         CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                Year Built:                 1985 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                          0
                                                                                Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          414
                                                                                Rental Bldgs                   12 Parking/Unit                  1.5
                                                                                Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 1.05
                                                                                Rentable SF:              208440

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
ORI-Colorado Inc                       Camden Property Trust                     Leases                    None   Amount               $12,500,000
(Camden Property Trust)                 (Camden Property Trust)                  Applicant Fee              $50   Date                  09/01/1995
3 Greenway Plaza                       9250 E. Costilla Ave.                     Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $45,290
Suite 1300                             Suite 540
Houston, TX 77046                      Greenwood Village, CO 80112               Pet Dep.                   $0R   Price/SF                  $59.83
(713) 354-2500                         (303) 220-8080                            Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                       UTILITIES
Air Cond          W/D Hook-up            Billiards                                  Util          Meter
Cable TV          Walk-ins Some          Clubhouse                                  Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Wash/Dry Some          Htd Swim Pool                              Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                               Kitchen                                    Water:       Master
Disposal                                 Laundry Room                               Util        System
Fireplace                                Spa                                        Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                             Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                      Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                   Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                              Util      Own Res Fuel:
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                   Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                    Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           3% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           5% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    5%                                               Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     5%                                               Sewer:           X
                                                                                    Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                   Beds/   Net   Fur            Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type No Baths    SF    Unf   Low     High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat 48 1 / 1    650   U     $817    $1,063 $1.26 $1.45                $712       $0/149      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat 108 1 / 1   670   U     $802    $1,068 $1.20 $1.40                $729       $0/149      charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                        to residents.
C         Flat 72 2 / 1    850   U     $943    $1,080 $1.11 $1.19                $750       $0/149
D         Flat 48 2 / 2    910   U     $1,016 $1,315 $1.12 $1.28                 $900       $0/149      MISC: Model C have walk-in closets. Rent
                                                                                                        Pricing Program used.
               276         755         $879            $1.17 $1.32
1Q 2013                                                   © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            CANYON CREST                                                                    PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                       5754 S. Lowell Wy.                   Total Units                   90
                                                                                       Littleton,CO 80123                   APN:           2077-18-4-18-001
                                                                                       County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                  39.6116
                                                                                       Phone:             (303) 794-2241 Longitude:               -105.0354
                                                                                       Classification:                   C Map Book:                 343 T:
                                                                                       Prop. Rank:               84.2384 Submarket:                     JEF
                                                                                       Acres:                        3.25 Census Tract:               56.18
                                                                                       Density:                     27.69 Condo Map:                     No
                                                                                       Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5744/ 5255
                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                       Year Built:                  1970 Attached Garage:                  0
                                                                                       Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                  0
                                                                                       Construction:          Frm&Brick Covered:                         45
                                                                                       Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                   Unknown
                                                                                       Rental Bldgs                     10 Parking/Unit            Unknown
                                                                                       Stories                           3 Parking/Bed             Unknown
                                                                                       Rentable SF:                91830

               OWNER                                      MANAGER                                  POLICIES                            LAST SALE
FW Madison Marktg Grp/Bellaire                Unique Management Solutions               Leases              6-12 month    Amount                $4,100,000
 (Unique Properties LLC)                       (Unique Properties LLC)                  Applicant Fee              $40    Date                  08/01/2008
1873 S. Bellaire St.                          1873 S. Bellaire St.                      Pets Allowed              Most    Price/unit               $45,556
Suite 825                                     Suite 825
Denver, CO 80222                              Denver, CO 80222                          Pet Dep.         $200R; $100N     Price/SF                  $44.65
(303) 321-5888                                (303) 321-5888                            Pet Charge/Mo              $35
           UNIT AMENITIES                             COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond          T1 Opt                        BBQ                                        Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt      W/D Hook-up                   Htd Swim Pool                              Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Some                          Laundry Room                               Elect:         Indiv
Some              Walk-ins Some                 Playground                                 Water:       Master
Dishwasher                                      Spa                                        Util        System
Disposal                                        Weight/Exer Rm                             Heat:          Indiv
Doorbell                                                                                   Cool:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                              Hot Wa:        Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                                        Paid By
Priv Entry Some                                                                            Util      Own Res Fuel:
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                               Heat:            X Gas
Stacked W/D                                                                                Cool:            X Elect
Some                                                                                       Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                           Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                              AFFORDABLE STATUS                       ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                                 2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Water:           X
Prev Qtr                                 3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Sewer:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                          4%                                                Trash:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                           6%
                                                UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                      Beds/     Net     Fur           Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths     SF      Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF             Low Rent   /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   30   1/1       640     U     $660   $700    $1.03 $1.06               $660       $300/150      INCOME: Rents increase $40 with covered
B         Flat   30   2 / 1.5   851     U     $840   $870    $0.99 $1.00               $840       $300/150      parking and $30-$38 with washer/dryer.
                                                                                                                High rent is for wood flooring.
C         TH     22   2 / 1.5   1450    U     $1,119 $1,350 $0.77 $0.85                $1,119     $500/150
D         TH     8    3 / 2.5   1900    U     $1,409 $1,559 $0.74 $0.78                $1,409     $500/150      UTILITIES: Some buildings have central air
                                                                                                                conditioning, with the balance having wall
                 90             1,020         $899           $0.88 $0.92
                                                                                                                units. Owner charges water, sewer and
                                                                                                                trash costs back to residents.
                                                                                                                MISC: Renovation completed 4th quarter
                                                                                                                2008. Models C-D have basements and
                                                                                                                private entries. Last Sale price was severely
                                                                                                                affected by foundation problems.
1Q 2013                                                          © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                     1Q 2013
                   CHATEAU LYNNEWOOD                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5579 S. Windermere St.              Total Units                  56
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-01-020
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.615716
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 794-4651 Longitude:            -105.006927
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              64.1791 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       1.12 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                    50.00 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5715/ 5102
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1972 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                  Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                          0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         68
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                1.21
                                                                                  Stories                          6 Parking/Bed                 0.87
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               31322

              OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Chateau Lynnewood LLC                  Eugene & Bernice Straub                     Leases              9,12 month   Amount                $2,700,000
 (Straub, Eugene & Bernice)             (Straub, Eugene & Bernice)                 Applicant Fee              $25   Date                  04/01/2000
26 W. Dry Creek Cr.                    26 W. Dry Creek Cr.                         Pets Allowed              Cats   Price/unit               $48,214
Suite 600                              Suite 600
Littleton, CO 80120                    Littleton, CO 80120                         Pet Dep.                $150R    Price/SF                   $86.2
(303) 996-4334                         (303) 996-4334                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                          COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Billiards                                   Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans                              Clubhouse                                   Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                Kitchen                                     Water:       Master
Disposal                                  Laundry Room                                Util        System
Frst Free Ref                             Sauna                                       Heat:         Boiler
Slf-Cln Oven                              Weight/Exer Rm                              Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                                                                          Hot Wa:       Boiler
T1 Opt                                                                                          Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Heat:       X        Gas
Curr Qtr                             2% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                             2% Rent Restricted:                           0% Hot Water: X         Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      2%                                               Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       2%                                               ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                                      Trash:      X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                    Beds/     Net   Fur         Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF             Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   34 1 / 1     533   U   $650 $670 $1.22 $1.24                    $650        $300/0       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   22 2 / 1     600   U   $750 $775 $1.25 $1.27                    $750        $300/0
                 56           559       $689         $1.23 $1.25
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                   COLUMBINE MEADOWS                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               8214 W. Ken Caryl Pl.               Total Units                 277
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80128                  APN:                    187887
                                                                               County:                  Jefferson Latitude:             39.579637
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 972-2967 Longitude:            -105.089107
                                                                               Classification:                  B Map Book:                 372 J:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                90.153 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                               Acres:                       26.77 Census Tract:             120.56
                                                                               Density:                     10.35 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5970/ 5543
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                  1987 Attached Garage:              347
                                                                               Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          347
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                    58 Parking/Unit                2.51
                                                                               Stories                          2 Parking/Bed                 1.13
                                                                               Rentable SF:              403207

              OWNER                            MANAGER                                     POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Ken Caryl Wadsworth Dev. Gp.        Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.                 Leases                12 month Amount                         N/A
 (Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.)       (Model Realty/Segan Inv. Co.)              Applicant Fee              $40 Date                    10/01/1987
240 Josephine St.                   240 Josephine St.                           Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 202                           Suite 202
Denver, CO 80206                    Denver, CO 80206                            Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 321-5600                      (303) 321-5600                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
           UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond Some     T1 Opt                 BBQ                                       Util          Meter
Attach Gar        Vaulted Ceil Some      Clubhouse                                 Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt      W/D Hook-up            Htd Swim Pool                             Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      Washer/Dryer           Kitchen                                   Water:       Master
Some                                     Playground                                Util        System
Dishwasher                               Sport Court                               Heat:          Indiv
Disposal                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace                                                                          Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                                 Paid By
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                     Util      Own Res Fuel:
Some                                                                               Heat:            X Gas
Priv Entry                                                                         Cool:            X Elect
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                       Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                   Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                     ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                           3% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Water:      X
Prev Qtr                           3% Rent Restricted:                          0% Sewer:      X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    3%                                              Trash:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     3%
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
               Beds/       Net     Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths        SF      Unf   Low    High $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: Model A $20 off each
                                                                                                       month; Models B and H $115 off each
A     TH   7   1/1         959     U     $915   $925 $0.95 $0.96                 $915       $500/0
                                                                                                       month; Model C $65 off each month; and
B     TH   2   2 / 1.5     1204    U     $1,055 $0    $0.88 $0.88                $1,055     $500/0     Model D $45 off each month.
C     TH   85 2 / 2.5      1416    U     $1,025 $0    $0.72 $0.72                $1,025     $500/0
                                                                                                       MISC: Model B is one bedroom with den
D     TH   48 2 / 2.5      1455    U     $1,100 $0    $0.76 $0.76                $1,100     $500/0     and Model F is two bedroom with den. All
E     TH   70 2 / 2.5      1455    U     $1,180 $0    $0.81 $0.81                $1,180     $500/0     units have attached garages.
F     TH   9   3 / 2.5     1588    U     $1,155 $0    $0.73 $0.73                $1,155     $500/0
G     TH   24 3 / 2.5      1604    U     $1,280 $0    $0.80 $0.80                $1,280     $500/0
H     TH   32 3 / 3        1539    U     $1,255 $0    $0.82 $0.82                $1,255     $500/0
           277             1,456         $1,127       $0.77 $0.77
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                CONCORDIA ON THE LAKE                                                            PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                             6155 S. Ammons Wy.                 Total Units                217
                                                                             Littleton,CO 80123                 APN:                   408077
                                                                             County:                 Jefferson Latitude:              39.60526
                                                                             Phone:            (303) 933-3449 Longitude:            -105.08965
                                                                             Classification:                 A Map Book:                342 W:
                                                                             Prop. Rank:             181.7385 Submarket:                   JEF
                                                                             Acres:                       6.01 Census Tract:            120.48
                                                                             Density:                    36.12 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                             Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:          5789/ 5546
                                                                                      CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                             Year Built:                 2001 Attached Garage:               0
                                                                             Style:                   Garden Detached Garage:              111
                                                                             Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        0
                                                                             Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          88
                                                                             Rental Bldgs                    3 Parking/Unit               0.92
                                                                             Stories                         3 Parking/Bed                0.59
                                                                             Rentable SF:             200950

              OWNER                           MANAGER                                    POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Johnson Lake Adult Community I     Grant Reservoir Company                    Leases                12 month Amount                             N/A
 (Grant Reservoir Company)          (Grant Reservoir Company)                 Applicant Fee              $0 Date
2922 Evergreen Pky.                2922 Evergreen Pky.                        Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 302                          Suite 302
Evergreen, CO 80439                Evergreen, CO 80439                        Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 761-9967                     (303) 761-9967                             Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                     UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                 BBQ                                      Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up            Beauty Salon                             Gas:         Master
Dishwasher       Walk-ins               Billiards                                Elect:       Master
Disposal         Washer/Dryer           Clubhouse                                Water:       Master
Fireplace                               Controlled Entry                         Util        System
Frst Free Ref                           Kitchen                                  Heat:         Boiler
Ice Maker                               Spa                                      Cool:        Chiller
Microwave                               Weight/Exer Rm                           Hot Wa:       Boiler
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                             Paid By
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                     Util      Own Res Fuel:
Storage Rm Some                                                                  Heat:       X        Gas
                                                                                 Cool:       X        Elect
              VACANCY                       AFFORDABLE STATUS                    Hot Water: X         Gas
Curr Qtr                          1% Gov't Subsidized:                        0% Stove:      X        Elect
Prev Qtr                          3% Rent Restricted:                         0% ElecOthr: X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                   2%                                             Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                    2%                                             Sewer:      X
                                                                                 Trash:      X
                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                              COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net     Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF      Unf   Low    High   $/SF Av. $/SF            Low Rent   /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 15 1 / 1      648     U     $1,430 $0     $2.21 $2.21              $1,410     $1,000/0    INCOME: Rents increase $40 with detached
B     Flat 36 1 / 1      686     U     $1,450 $0     $2.11 $2.11              $1,420     $1,000/0    garage and $10-$30 with storage.
C     Flat 18 1 / 1      733     U     $1,520 $0     $2.07 $2.07              $1,590     $1,000/0    MISC: Age restricted. Phase II (22 units in
D     Flat 18 1 / 1      769     U     $1,540 $0     $2.00 $2.00              $1,520     $1,000/0    Models I-M) opened 3rd quarter 2008. Rents
                                                                                                     include light housekeeping. Has crown
E     Flat 12 1 / 1      875     U     $2,260 $0     $2.58 $2.58              $2,240     $1,000/0
                                                                                                     molding.
F     Flat 36 2 / 1      945     U     $1,970 $0     $2.08 $2.08              $1,950     $1,000/0
G     Flat 54 2 / 1      984     U     $1,920 $2,050 $1.95 $2.02              $1,900     $1,000/0
H     Flat 6   2/2       1219    U     $2,460 $3,100 $2.02 $2.28              $2,400     $1,000/0
I     Flat 2   2/2       1384    U     $3,440 $0     $2.49 $2.49              $3,400     $1,000/0
J     Flat 6   2/2       1415    U     $3,670 $0     $2.59 $2.59              $3,600     $1,000/0
K     Flat 6   2/2       1457    U     $4,100 $0     $2.81 $2.81              $3,990     $1,000/0
L     Flat 4   2 / 2.5   1615    U     $4,100 $0     $2.54 $2.54              $3,990     $1,000/0
M     TH   4   3/3       2017    U     $4,555 $0     $2.26 $2.26              $4,520     $1,000/0
           217           926           $1,997        $2.15 $2.18
1Q 2013                                                © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
                 COURTYARDS-OLDE LITTLETON                                         2100 W. Berry Ave.                 Total Units                  97
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-16-3-02-005
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                39.61709
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 798-6798 Longitude:             -105.01364
                                                                                   Classification:                 C Map Book:                 343 V:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:              81.0362 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                       1.64 Census Tract:              65.01
                                                                                   Density:                    59.07 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                   Past Name: Courtyards of           RD NS/ EW:           5705/ 5138
                                                                                   Olde Little
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1984 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        65
                                                                                   Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           68
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                    5 Parking/Unit                1.37
                                                                                   Stories                         3 Parking/Bed                    1
                                                                                   Rentable SF:               69450

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Hill Street Apartments                  Metrex Property Group LLC                   Leases                12 month Amount               $3,925,000
 (Sheiner Group)                         (Metrex Property Group LLC)                Applicant Fee              $30 Date                 01/01/1998
4119 Sherbrooke St. W.                  5031 S. Ulster St.                          Pets Allowed             None Price/unit               $40,464
Westmount, QB H3Z1A7                    Suite 220
(514) 876-4300                          Denver, CO 80237                            Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                 $56.52
                                        (720) 529-9855                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                          UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                     BBQ                                        Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up                Laundry Room                               Gas:          None
Dishwasher       Some                                                                  Elect:         Indiv
Disposal         Walk-ins Some                                                         Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                                                                         Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                          Heat:          Indiv
Microwave                                                                              Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                         Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                      Paid By
Stacked W/D Opt                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
Storage Room                                                                           Heat:            X Elect
                                                                                       Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Hot Water:       X Elect
Curr Qtr                              3% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                              3% Rent Restricted:                           0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       3%                                               Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        2%                                               Sewer:      X
                                                                                       Trash:      X
                                             UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
                       Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type    No   Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF           Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat    16   Studio   475   U     $625 $0     $1.32 $1.32               $625         $450/0      INCOME: Rents increase $25 with covered
B         Flat    45   1/1      640   U     $695 $0     $1.09 $1.09               $695         $450/0      parking.
C         Flat    10   2/2      900   U     $895 $0     $0.99 $0.99               $895         $550/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat    26   2/2      925   U     $895 $0     $0.97 $0.97               $895         $550/0
                  97            716         $758        $1.06 $1.06
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                 1Q 2013
                         GALLUP HOUSE                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5967 S. Gallup St.                   Total Units                 139
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-21-1-02-016
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:               39.608519
                                                                                  Phone:             (303) 797-6287 Longitude:            -105.002382
                                                                                  Classification:                   C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:               78.4543 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                        2.93 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                                  Density:                     47.51 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                       RD NS/ EW:           5766/ 5078
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  1970 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                      Mixed Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:                Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                        208
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      3 Parking/Unit                 1.5
                                                                                  Stories                      3 & 4 Parking/Bed                   1.2
                                                                                  Rentable SF:                87385

               OWNER                             MANAGER                                      POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Autrey Investment Corp.               Baron Property Services (Mgt)                Leases              3-13 month   Amount                $4,100,000
 (Autrey Investment Corp.)             (Baron Property Services (Mgt))             Applicant Fee              $35   Date                  09/01/1983
2055 S. Oneida St.                    8400 E. Prentice Ave.                        Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $29,496
Suite 180                             Suite 900
Denver, CO 80224                      Greenwd.Village, CO 80111                    Pet Dep.         $125R; $125N    Price/SF                  $46.92
(303) 399-8912                        (720) 488-2000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Htd Swim Pool                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher                                Laundry Room                                Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven Some                                                                     Heat:         Boiler
T1 Opt                                                                                Cool:          Indiv
                                                                                      Hot Wa:       Boiler
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                                  Paid By
Curr Qtr                            5% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                            3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Heat:            X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     3%                                                Cool:            X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      3%                                                Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                      Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                      ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:           X
                                                                                      Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF             Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   2   Studio   470   U     $590 $0     $1.26 $1.26                 $580        $300/0       UTILITIES: Owner charges heating, water,
B         Flat   102 1 / 1    585   U     $683 $734 $1.17 $1.21                   $670        $350/0       sewer and trash costs back to residents.
C         Flat   35 2 / 1     765   U     $790 $827 $1.03 $1.06                   $780        $400/0       MISC: Has elevator.
                 139          629         $709        $1.13 $1.16
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                          MONTE VISTA                                                                  PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                   501 W. Mineral Ave.                Total Units                 219
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-34-2-01-005
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.5736
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 738-2000 Longitude:              -104.9941
                                                                                   Classification:                 A Map Book:                 374 K:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:             139.9506 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                      15.10 Census Tract:              56.34
                                                                                   Density:                    14.50 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                   Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           6013/ 5034
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1995 Attached Garage:              219
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                   Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                   Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          229
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                  22 Parking/Unit                 2.05
                                                                                   Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 1.35
                                                                                   Rentable SF:              194430

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                      POLICIES                           LAST SALE
RAR2-Monte Vista at Littleton          Greystar Real Estate Partners                Leases              6-13 month   Amount               $28,350,000
 (RREEF Funds)                         (Greystar Real Estate Partners )             Applicant Fee              $45   Date                  09/18/2006
875 N. Michigan Ave.                   1875 Lawrence St.                            Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit              $129,452
41st Floor                             Suite 650
Chicago, IL 60611                      Denver, CO 80202                             Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF                 $145.81
(312) 278-6416                         (303) 308-9000                               Pet Charge/Mo              $25
           UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio          BBQ                                          Util          Meter
Air Cond          Priv Entry              Billiards                                    Gas:           Indiv
Attach Gar        Roman Tub               Clubhouse                                    Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Storage Room            Computer Room                                Water:       Master
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                  Htd Swim Pool                                Util        System
Dishwasher        W/D Hook-up             Kitchen                                      Heat:          Indiv
Disposal          Walk-ins                Spa                                          Cool:          Indiv
Fireplace         Washer/Dryer            Weight/Exer Rm                               Hot Wa:        Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                                     Paid By
Ice Maker                                                                              Util      Own Res Fuel:
Microwave                                                                              Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                       Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                        AFFORDABLE STATUS                         Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                           6% Gov't Subsidized:                             0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                           5% Rent Restricted:                              0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    5%                                                  Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     4%                                                  Sewer:           X
                                                                                       Trash:           X
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
               Beds/      Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                     Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths       SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF                Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 76 1 / 1       730    U     $1,124 $1,244 $1.54 $1.62                   $1,137     $125/150     UTILITIES: Owner charges water, sewer
B     Flat 30 1 / 1       815    U     $1,199 $1,237 $1.47 $1.49                   $1,231     $125/150     and trash costs back to residents.
C     Flat 30 2 / 1       905    U     $1,205 $1,334 $1.33 $1.40                   $1,272     $125/150     MISC: Model C is one bedroom with den. All
D     Flat 53 2 / 2       1000   U     $1,280 $1,397 $1.28 $1.34                   $1,365     $150/150     units have attached garages. Rent Pricing
                                                                                                           Program used.
E     Flat 30 2 / 2       1145   U     $1,802 $1,987 $1.57 $1.65                   $1,247     $150/150
           219            888          $1,276         $1.44 $1.50
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       PARKLAND SQUARE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  750 W. Belleview Ave.               Total Units                 102
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-15-2-01-060
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.623664
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 552-7420 Longitude:            -104.997046
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 P:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              78.4975 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       2.70 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                    37.78 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5655/ 5053
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1973 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm&Stuc Covered:                          0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        130
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                1.27
                                                                                  Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.25
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               53760

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Belleview Two Holdings LLC              Botnick Realty                             Leases                12 month   Amount                $5,200,000
 (Botnick Realty)                        (Botnick Realty)                          Applicant Fee              $25   Date                  02/06/2012
1653 Merriman Rd.                       1653 Merriman Rd.                          Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $50,980
Suite 204                               Suite 204
Akron, OH 44313                         Akron, OH 44313                            Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF                  $97.96
(330) 867-4836                          (330) 867-4836                             Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                    Htd Swim Pool                             Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                Laundry Room                              Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans Some                                                                     Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                                                            Water:       Master
Disposal                                                                              Util        System
Fireplace Some                                                                        Heat:         Boiler
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                Hot Wa:       Boiler
Walk-ins Some                                                                                   Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                     Heat:            X Gas
Curr Qtr                              2% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                              3% Rent Restricted:                          0% Hot Water: X         Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       2%                                              Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        3%                                              ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:           X
                                                                                      Sewer:           X
                                                                                      Trash:           X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                       Beds/    Net   Fur         Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No    Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF     Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   2     Studio   400   U     $540 $0    $1.35 $1.35                $520        $300/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat   74    1/1      500   U     $635 $0    $1.27 $1.27                $615        $300/0      charges heating, water, sewer and trash
                                                                                                          costs back to residents.
C         Flat   16    1/1      565   U     $698 $0    $1.24 $1.24                $675        $300/0
D         Flat   8     1/1      640   U     $695 $0    $1.09 $1.09                $675        $300/0      MISC: Unit mix reconfigured 1st quarter
                                                                                                          2012. Shares leasing office with
E         Flat   2     2/1      900   U     $790 $0    $0.88 $0.88                $770        $300/0
                                                                                                          Windermere.
                 102            527         $651       $1.24 $1.24
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                                                                                                     PROPERTY INFORMATION
             PINNACLE AT MOUNTAIN GATE                                           7501 S. Utica Dr.                  Total Units                 496
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80128                 APN:           2077-31-2-06-002
                                                                                 County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.579439
                                                                                 Phone:            (303) 904-0100 Longitude:                -105.05
                                                                                 Classification:                 B Map Book:                  373 J:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:             113.2446 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                 Acres:                      28.53 Census Tract:              56.22
                                                                                 Density:                    17.39 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                 Past Name: Polo                    RD NS/ EW:           5972/ 5333
                                                                                 Club/Mountain Gate
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:              125
                                                                                 Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                 Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                          610
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                   23 Parking/Unit                1.48
                                                                                 Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 0.86
                                                                                 Rentable SF:              470712

              OWNER                              MANAGER                                     POLICIES                      LAST SALE
Pinnacle at Mountain Gate LLC         BRE Properties, Inc.                        Leases              6-12 month Amount            $45,356,000
 (JP Morgan Fleming)                   (BRE Properties, Inc.)                     Applicant Fee             $50 Date                04/25/2006
2029 Century Park E.                  9633 S. 48th St.                            Pets Allowed             None Price/unit            $107,479
Suite 4150                            Suite 140
Los Angeles, CA 90067                 Phoenix, AZ 85044                           Pet Dep.                       Price/SF              $113.25
(310) 860-7021                        (602) 381-8181                              Pet Charge/Mo              $0
           UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES                          UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings     Priv Bal/Patio         BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Air Cond          Roman Tub              Clubhouse                                   Gas:           Indiv
Alarm Sys Opt     Slf-Cln Oven           Computer Room                               Elect:         Indiv
Cable TV Opt      Storage Rm Some        Htd Swim Pool                               Water:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans      T1 Opt                 Kitchen                                     Util        System
Some              W/D Hook-up            Sauna                                       Heat:          Indiv
Dishwasher        Walk-ins               Spa                                         Cool:          Indiv
Disposal          Wash/Dry Opt           Weight/Exer Rm                              Hot Wa:        Indiv
Fireplace Some                                                                                  Paid By
Frst Free Ref                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
Ice Maker                                                                            Heat:            X Gas
Microwave                                                                            Cool:            X Elect
                                                                                     Hot Water:       X Gas
              VACANCY                      AFFORDABLE STATUS                         Stove:           X Elect
Curr Qtr                         4% Gov't Subsidized:                             0% ElecOthr:        X
Prev Qtr                         4% Rent Restricted:                              0% Water:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                  5%                                                  Sewer:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                   4%                                                  Trash:           X

                                        UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
               Beds/     Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths      SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF               Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: Model A $16 off each
                                                                                                         month; Model B $25 off each month; Model
A     Flat 92 1 / 1      707    U     $869   $1,355 $1.23 $1.57                  $869       $150/150
                                                                                                         E $163 off each month; Model F $187 off
B     Flat 72 1 / 1      796    U     $909   $1,170 $1.14 $1.31                  $909       $150/150     each month; and Model G $133 off each
C     Flat 60 2 / 1      916    U     $1,098 $0      $1.20 $1.20                 $1,064     $150/150     month with 12 month lease.
D     Flat 32 2 / 1      929    U     $1,155 $0      $1.24 $1.24                 $1,402     $150/150     INCOME: Rents increase $100 with
E     Flat 76 2 / 2      1022   U     $1,270 $1,698 $1.24 $1.45                  $1,270     $150/150     detached garage and $120 with under-unit
                                                                                                         detached, breezeway garage.
F     Flat 140 2 / 2     1093   U     $1,266 $1,389 $1.16 $1.21                  $1,266     $150/150
G     Flat 24 3 / 2      1374   U     $1,662 $2,159 $1.21 $1.39                  $1,662     $150/150     MISC: Models C-D are one bedrooms with
                                                                                                         den. Has crown molding. Last Sale
           496           949          $1,133         $1.19 $1.32
                                                                                                         represents the purchase of an 85% interest,
                                                                                                         with BRE Properties maintaining 15%
                                                                                                         interest.
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                         RIVERSIDE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                            4957 S. Prince Ct.                  Total Units                 248
                                                                            Littleton,CO 80123                  APN:           2077-08-4-11-005
                                                                            County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:              39.624955
                                                                            Phone:             (303) 730-8882 Longitude:           -105.019579
                                                                            Classification:                  B Map Book:                 343 R:
                                                                            Prop. Rank:              113.9647 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                            Acres:                        8.22 Census Tract:              55.53
                                                                            Density:                     30.17 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                            Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5649/ 5170
                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                            Year Built:                  1986 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                            Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:               14
                                                                            Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                        64
                                                                            Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          350
                                                                            Rental Bldgs                    21 Parking/Unit                1.73
                                                                            Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.06
                                                                            Rentable SF:               198756

               OWNER                        MANAGER                                     POLICIES                           LAST SALE
CP III Riverside LLC             Carmel Partners Management                  Leases              2-12 month   Amount               $20,500,000
 (Carmel Partners, Inc.)          (Carmel Partners Management)               Applicant Fee              $50   Date                  09/30/2008
1000 Sansome St.                 950 S. Cherry St.                           Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $82,661
Suite 180                        Sutie 1100
San Francisco, CA 94111-1323     Denver, CO 80246                            Pet Dep.         $250R; $100N    Price/SF                 $103.14
(415) 273-2900                   (303) 759-5123                              Pet Charge/Mo              $30
          UNIT AMENITIES                    COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond         Vaulted Ceil Some    BBQ                                       Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     W/D Hook-up          Computer Room                             Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher       Walk-ins Some        Controlled Entry                          Elect:         Indiv
Disposal         Washer/Dryer         Htd Swim Pool                             Water:         Indiv
Fireplace                             Jogging Trl                               Util        System
Frst Free Ref                         Playground                                Heat:          Indiv
Microwave Some                        Sport Court                               Cool:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                        Weight/Exer Rm                            Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                               Paid By
Storage Room                                                                    Util      Own Res Fuel:
T1 Opt                                                                          Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                     AFFORDABLE STATUS                     Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                        2% Gov't Subsidized:                         0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                        2% Rent Restricted:                          0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                 3%                                              Water:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                  8%                                              Sewer:           X
                                                                                Trash:           X
                                      UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
               Beds/    Net    Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model Type No Baths     SF     Unf   Low    High   $/SF Av. $/SF            Low Rent   /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A     Flat 44 1 / 1     590    U     $865   $0     $1.47 $1.47              $795       $250/125     INCOME: Rents increase $30 with covered
B     Loft 22 1 / 1     606    U     $900   $0     $1.49 $1.49              $805       $250/125     parking, $100 with detached garage, $30 for
                                                                                                    view, and $40 with hardwood floor. Seven
C     Flat 18 1 / 1     706    U     $950   $0     $1.35 $1.35              $865       $250/125
                                                                                                    units have Pergo-type flooring and/or new
D     Flat 28 1 / 1     726    U     $950   $0     $1.31 $1.31              $865       $250/125     cabinets, renting for up to $150 additional
E     Loft 22 2 / 1     744    U     $1,005 $0     $1.35 $1.35              $875       $300/125     rent.
F     Loft 12 2 / 1     875    U     $955   $0     $1.09 $1.09              $955       $300/125     MISC: Rent Pricing Program used. Models
G     Loft 20 2 / 1     894    U     $955   $0     $1.07 $1.07              $1,210     $300/125     E and G are one bedrooms with loft, Model
                                                                                                    F is one bedroom with den and Model J is
H     Flat 22 2 / 1.5   860    U     $1,125 $1,135 $1.31 $1.31              $1,210     $300/125
                                                                                                    two bedroom with loft. Former clubhouse is
I     Flat 40 2 / 2     990    U     $1,225 $1,245 $1.24 $1.25              $1,115     $300/125     used as leasing office.
J     Loft 20 3 / 2     1158   U     $1,285 $1,315 $1.11 $1.12              $1,250     $300/125
           248          801          $1,023        $1.28 $1.28
1Q 2013                                               © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       SOUTH GLENN PLACE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                   6541 S. Vine St.                    Total Units                 136
                                                                                   Littleton,CO 80121                  APN:           2077-23-4-07-057
                                                                                   County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                  39.5976
                                                                                   Phone:            (303) 798-7900 Longitude:               -104.9616
                                                                                   Classification:                  B Map Book:                 375 A:
                                                                                   Prop. Rank:                 92.92 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                   Acres:                       3.12 Census Tract:               56.11
                                                                                   Density:                    43.60 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                   Past Name: Vine Street              RD NS/ EW:           5843/ 4860
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                   Year Built:                 1970 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                   Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                   Construction:               Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                   Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        150
                                                                                   Rental Bldgs                     4 Parking/Unit                 1.1
                                                                                   Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.04
                                                                                   Rentable SF:               65208

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Urban Properties LLC             Triton Investment Co.                        Leases             12,18 month   Amount                $7,930,000
 (Triton Investment Co.)                (Triton Investment Co.)                     Applicant Fee              $35   Date                  09/18/2006
7901 E. Belleview Ave.                 7901 E. Belleview Ave.                       Pets Allowed              Cats   Price/unit               $58,309
24th Floor                             24th Floor
Englewood, CO 80111                    Englewood, CO 80111                          Pet Dep.                $150R    Price/SF                 $121.61
(303) 830-7848                         (303) 830-7848                               Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                        COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   BBQ                                         Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                                Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans                                                                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                               Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                          Util        System
Storage Room                                                                           Heat:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                 Cool:          Indiv
                                                                                       Hot Wa:        Indiv
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                                  Paid By
Curr Qtr                             2% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                             3% Rent Restricted:                            0% Heat:            X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      3%                                                Cool:            X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       3%                                                Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                       Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                       ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                       Water:      X
                                                                                       Sewer:      X
                                                                                       Trash:      X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                       Beds/   Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No    Baths   SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF            Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   88    1/1     446   U     $695 $0     $1.56 $1.56                $685         $400/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   40    1/1     509   U     $775 $0     $1.52 $1.52                $750         $400/0
C         Flat   8     2/1     700   U     $860 $0     $1.23 $1.23                $860         $400/0
                 136           479         $728        $1.52 $1.52
1Q 2013                                                      © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                 SOUTHVIEW PLACE TOWERS                                                              PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                 5820 S. Windermere St.              Total Units                 259
                                                                                 Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-22-015
                                                                                 County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.610843
                                                                                 Phone:            (303) 795-2902 Longitude:            -105.006998
                                                                                 Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 S:
                                                                                 Prop. Rank:              58.4884 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                 Acres:                       5.88 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                                 Density:                    44.02 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                 Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5749/ 5103
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                 Year Built:                 1972 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                 Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                 Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                        200
                                                                                 Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        200
                                                                                 Rental Bldgs                     2 Parking/Unit                1.54
                                                                                 Stories                          5 Parking/Bed                 1.18
                                                                                 Rentable SF:              194453

              OWNER                              MANAGER                                     POLICIES                        LAST SALE
Southview Place Towers LLC            Hudson Real Estate Co.                      Leases                12 month Amount              $19,500,000
 (Hudson Ideal Co.)                    (Hudson Real Estate Co.)                   Applicant Fee              $30 Date                 08/01/2003
1200 28th St.                         1200 28th St.                               Pets Allowed             None Price/unit               $75,290
Suite 100                             Suite 100
Boulder, CO 80303                     Boulder, CO 80303                           Pet Dep.                       Price/SF                $100.28
(303) 442-6380                        (303) 442-6380                              Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                          COMMUNITY AMENITIES                       UTILITIES
Air Cond                                  Billiards                                  Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                              Clubhouse                                  Gas:         Master
Dishwasher Some                           Controlled Entry                           Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                  Htd Swim Pool                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                             Kitchen                                    Util        System
Priv Bal/Patio                            Laundry Room                               Heat:         Boiler
Slf-Cln Oven                              Sauna                                      Cool:          Indiv
Storage Room                              Weight/Exer Rm                             Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                               Paid By
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                            2% Gov't Subsidized:                          0% Heat:       X        Gas
Prev Qtr                            1% Rent Restricted:                           0% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     1%                                               Hot Water: X         Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      0%                                               Stove:           X Elect
                                                                                     ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                     Water:      X
                                                                                     Sewer:      X
                                                                                     Trash:      X
                                          UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   4   Studio   296   U     $510 $0     $1.72 $1.72                $510        $250/0      INCOME: Rents increase $35 with covered
B         Flat   12 Studio    375   U     $510 $0     $1.36 $1.36                $510        $250/0      (community garage) parking.
C         Flat   9   Studio   425   U     $520 $0     $1.22 $1.22                $520        $250/0      UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
D         Flat   154 1 / 1    696   U     $730 $770 $1.05 $1.08                  $730        $250/0
                                                                                                         MISC: Age restricted.
E         Flat   60 2 / 2     966   U     $890 $910 $0.92 $0.93                  $890        $250/0
F         Flat   20 2 / 2     990   U     $890 $920 $0.90 $0.91                  $890        $250/0
                 259          751         $759        $1.01 $1.03
1Q 2013                                                    © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                         SYCAMORE HILL                                                                   PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                     5915 S. Sycamore St.               Total Units                  50
                                                                                     Littleton,CO 80120                 APN:           2077-21-2-31-001
                                                                                     County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.608717
                                                                                     Phone:            (303) 794-3021 Longitude:           -105.015154
                                                                                     Classification:                 C Map Book:                 343 Z:
                                                                                     Prop. Rank:              83.4833 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                                     Acres:                       2.03 Census Tract:              65.02
                                                                                     Density:                    24.63 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                                     Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5764/ 5147
                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                                     Year Built:                 1985 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                     Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                     Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        46
                                                                                     Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           15
                                                                                     Rental Bldgs                    3 Parking/Unit                1.22
                                                                                     Stories                         2 Parking/Bed                 0.85
                                                                                     Rentable SF:               36551

             OWNER                                    MANAGER                                    POLICIES                       LAST SALE
Sycamore Hills Venture                    Mountain Crest Properties                   Leases              6-12 month Amount                            N/A
(Rondell Homes)                            (Mountain Crest Properties)                Applicant Fee              $25 Date
1249A E. Imperial Hwy.                    733 N. Tejon St.                            Pets Allowed              Cats Price/unit
Suite A                                   Colorado Springs, CO 80903
Placentia, CA 92670                       (719) 444-0262                              Pet Dep.                  $0R Price/SF
(714) 996-9960                                                                        Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                            UTILITIES
Air Cond Some     Walk-ins Some             Htd Swim Pool                                Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                                Laundry Room                                 Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher                                                                               Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                                 Water:       Master
Fireplace                                                                                Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                                            Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                             Hot Wa:        Indiv
Storage Room                                                                                        Paid By
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                        Util      Own Res Fuel:
W/D Hook-up                                                                              Heat:            X Gas
Some                                                                                     Cool:            X Elect
                                                                                         Hot Water:       X Gas
              VACANCY                           AFFORDABLE STATUS                        Stove:           X Elect
Curr Qtr                              4% Gov't Subsidized:                            4% ElecOthr:        X
Prev Qtr                              2% Rent Restricted:                             0% Water:      X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                       3%                                                 Sewer:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                        2%                                                 Trash:      X

                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                      Beds/   Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                  Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths   SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF             Low Rent     /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   11   1/1     615   U     $720 $0     $1.17 $1.17                 $720         $250/150
B         Flat   4    1/1     663   U     $720 $0     $1.09 $1.09                 $720         $250/150
C         Flat   11   1/1     700   U     $740 $0     $1.06 $1.06                 $740         $250/150
D         Flat   2    1/1     730   U     $740 $0     $1.01 $1.01                 $740         $250/150
E         Flat   16   2/1     817   U     $840 $0     $1.03 $1.03                 $840         $250/150
F         Flat   6    2/2     817   U     $880 $0     $1.08 $1.08                 $880         $250/150
                 50           731         $783        $1.07 $1.07
1Q 2013                                                        © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                 1Q 2013
                  TERRA VISTA AT THE PARK                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                    5341 S. Federal Cir.                Total Units                 324
                                                                                    Littleton,CO 80123                  APN:           2077-17-2-16-007
                                                                                    County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:              39.620311
                                                                                    Phone:             (303) 795-5850 Longitude:           -105.027389
                                                                                    Classification:                  B Map Book:                 343 Q:
                                                                                    Prop. Rank:               96.7765 Submarket:                    JEF
                                                                                    Acres:                       12.19 Census Tract:               56.2
                                                                                    Density:                     26.58 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                    Past Name: Turf Club                RD NS/ EW:           5682/ 5212
                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                    Year Built:                  1984 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                                    Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                                    Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                          440
                                                                                    Rental Bldgs                   16 Parking/Unit                 1.36
                                                                                    Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 0.92
                                                                                    Rentable SF:               256224

               OWNER                                  MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
MFREVE-Terra Vista LLC                    Holland Residential                        Leases              2-12 month   Amount               $28,465,500
 (Mesirow Fin'l Inst. R.E.)                (Holland Residential)                     Applicant Fee              $45   Date                  04/01/2011
353 N. Clark St.                          600 S. Cherry St.                          Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $87,856
Chicago, IL 60654                         Suite 700
(312) 595-6938                            Denver, CO 80246                           Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF                  $111.1
                                          (720) 452-3800                             Pet Charge/Mo              $25
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                           UTILITIES
Air Cond         T1 Opt                     Clubhouse                                   Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt     Vaulted Ceil Some          Computer Room                               Gas:           Indiv
Ceiling Fans     Walk-ins Some              Htd Swim Pool                               Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher       Washer/Dryer               Laundry Room                                Water:       Master
Disposal                                    Spa                                         Util        System
Fireplace                                   Weight/Exer Rm                              Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                                           Cool:          Indiv
Some                                                                                    Hot Wa:        Indiv
Microwave Some                                                                                     Paid By
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                          Util      Own Res Fuel:
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                            Heat:            X Gas
Some                                                                                    Cool:            X Elect
Storage Room                                                                            Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                                        Stove:           X Elect
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                        ElecOthr:        X
Curr Qtr                             5% Gov't Subsidized:                            0% Water:           X
Prev Qtr                             3% Rent Restricted:                             0% Sewer:           X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      5%                                                 Trash:           X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       7%
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                  COMMENTS
                     Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths     SF    Unf    Low High $/SF     Av. $/SF            Low Rent     /NR Fee       CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   168 1 / 1    672   U      $780 $0    $1.16 $1.16                $780         $250/150      UTILITIES: AC units are wall. Owner
B         Flat   48 2 / 1     862   U      $910 $0    $1.06 $1.06                $915         $250/150      charges water, sewer and trash costs back
                                                                                                            to residents.
C         Flat   108 2 / 2    944   U      $990 $0    $1.05 $1.05                $1,010       $250/150
                 324          791          $869       $1.10 $1.10                                           MISC: Rent Pricing Program used. Each unit
                                                                                                            has either a stacked or side-by-side
                                                                                                            washer/dryer.
1Q 2013                                                       © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            TIBURON                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               700 W. Belleview Ave.              Total Units                  83
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80110                 APN:           2077-15-2-01-011
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:              39.624135
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 738-0407 Longitude:           -104.997529
                                                                               Classification:                 B Map Book:                 344 P:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:               95.948 Submarket:                   DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       3.68 Census Tract:              66.01
                                                                               Density:                    22.57 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                     RD NS/ EW:           5655/ 5052
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                          PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                               Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                        39
                                                                               Roof Type:           Comp Shngl Open:                           86
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                    8 Parking/Unit                1.51
                                                                               Stories                     2 & 3 Parking/Bed                 1.17
                                                                               Rentable SF:               64476

             OWNER                                MANAGER                                  POLICIES                      LAST SALE
Tiburon Associates                     SKM Management Company                   Leases              6-12 month Amount                             N/A
(SKM Management Company)                (SKM Management Company)                Applicant Fee             $35 Date
3773 Cherry Creek Dr. N                3773 Cherry Creek Dr. N                  Pets Allowed             None Price/unit
Suite 535                              Suite 535
Denver, CO 80209                       Denver, CO 80209                         Pet Dep.                       Price/SF
(303) 388-0907                         (303) 388-0907                           Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES                        UTILITIES
Air Cond          W/D Hook-up            Clubhouse                                 Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt      Walk-ins Some          Controlled Entry                          Gas:           Indiv
Dishwasher        Washer/Dryer           Htd Swim Pool                             Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                 Kitchen                                   Water:       Master
Fireplace Some                           Laundry Room                              Util        System
Frst Free Ref                            Weight/Exer Rm                            Heat:          Indiv
Priv Bal/Patio                                                                     Cool:          Indiv
Roman Tub Some                                                                     Hot Wa:        Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                                  Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                             Util      Own Res Fuel:
Vaulted Ceil Some                                                                  Heat:            X Gas
                                                                                   Cool:            X Elect
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                   Hot Water:       X Gas
Curr Qtr                             4% Gov't Subsidized:                       0% Stove:           X Elect
Prev Qtr                             4% Rent Restricted:                        0% ElecOthr:        X
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      4%                                            Water:      X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       7%                                            Sewer:      X
                                                                                   Trash:      X
                                         UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                               COMMENTS
                  Beds/   Net    Fur           Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr   Sec Dep
Model     Type No Baths   SF     Unf   Low    High    $/SF Av. $/SF              Low Rent   /NR Fee    CONCESSIONS: $100 off 1st month.
A         Flat 4 1 / 1    644    U     $790   $830    $1.23 $1.26                $790       $250/0     INCOME: Model M is for clubhouse.
B         Flat 5 1 / 1    645    U     $790   $830    $1.22 $1.26                $790       $250/0
                                                                                                       MISC: Models J and L are one bedrooms
C         Flat 6 1 / 1    653    U     $790   $830    $1.21 $1.24                $790       $250/0     with den. Models B-C, E, G, I-J, L and N
D         Flat 6 1 / 1    668    U     $790   $830    $1.18 $1.21                $790       $250/0     have assigned covered parking.
E         Flat 5 1 / 1    686    U     $790   $830    $1.15 $1.18                $790       $250/0
F         Flat 16 1 / 1   690    U     $790   $830    $1.14 $1.17                $790       $250/0
G         Flat 5 1 / 1    703    U     $790   $830    $1.12 $1.15                $790       $250/0
H         Flat 12 1 / 1   719    U     $790   $830    $1.10 $1.13                $790       $250/0
I         Flat 5 2 / 2    858    U     $1,010 $1,270 $1.18 $1.33                 $1,010     $250/0
J         Flat 5 2 / 2    934    U     $1,010 $1,270 $1.08 $1.22                 $1,010     $250/0
K         TH   5 2/2      1004   U     $1,090 $1,270 $1.09 $1.18                 $1,090     $250/0
L         TH   5 2/2      1110   U     $1,090 $1,270 $0.98 $1.06                 $1,090     $250/0
M         Flat 1 2 / 2    1150
N         TH   3 2/2      1152   U     $1,100 $1,270 $0.95 $1.03                 $1,100     $250/0
               83         777          $854          $1.10 $1.16
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                            WINDERMERE                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  5519 S. Windermere                  Total Units                  76
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-01-017
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.616712
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 552-7420 Longitude:            -105.007275
                                                                                  Classification:                  C Map Book:                 344 N:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:              55.9914 Submarket:                    DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       1.50 Census Tract:               65.02
                                                                                  Density:                    50.77 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5708/ 5104
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1961 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Mixed Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:               Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         60
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     3 Parking/Unit                0.79
                                                                                  Stories                     2 & 4 Parking/Bed                  0.56
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               52140

               OWNER                                 MANAGER                                  POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Windermere Holdings LLC                  Botnick Realty                            Leases                12 month   Amount                             N/A
 (Botnick Realty)                         (Botnick Realty)                         Applicant Fee              $25   Date
1653 Merriman Rd.                        1653 Merriman Rd.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Suite 204                                Suite 204
Akron, OH 44313                          Akron, OH 44313                           Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF
(330) 867-4836                           (330) 867-4836                            Pet Charge/Mo              $20
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES                         UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   Controlled Entry                           Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                               Gas:         Master
Dishwasher Some                                                                       Elect:         Indiv
Disposal                                                                              Water:       Master
Frst Free Ref                                                                         Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven                                                                          Heat:         Boiler
Storage Rm Some                                                                       Cool:          Indiv
T1 Opt                                                                                Hot Wa:       Boiler
Walk-ins                                                                                         Paid By
                                                                                      Util      Own Res Fuel:
              VACANCY                         AFFORDABLE STATUS                       Heat:       X        Gas
Curr Qtr                            4% Gov't Subsidized:                           0% Cool:            X Elect
Prev Qtr                            5% Rent Restricted:                            0% Hot Water:       X Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     4%                                                Stove:           X Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      4%                                                ElecOthr:        X
                                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                                      Trash:      X
                                           UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                    Beds/    Net   Fur           Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF    Unf    Low   High $/SF    Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: Model A $50 off each
                                                                                                          month and Model B $70 off each month.
A         Flat   44 1 / 1    625   U      $745 $0     $1.19 $1.19                $745        $300/0
B         Flat   8 2/1       710   U      $795 $0     $1.12 $1.12                $795        $300/0       INCOME: Some units have 10'x10' storage,
                                                                                                          but other storage is available onsite for
C         Flat   24 2 / 1    790   U      $825 $0     $1.04 $1.04                $795        $300/0
                                                                                                          $10-$20 monthly.
                 76          686          $776        $1.13 $1.13
                                                                                                          UTILITIES: A/C units are wall.
                                                                                                          MISC: Added to Apartment Insights 1st
                                                                                                          quarter 2011. Shares leasing office with
                                                                                                          Parkland Square.
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                        ALYSON COURT                                                                PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               5807 S. Gallup St.                  Total Units                  60
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-21-045
                                                                               County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.6116
                                                                               Phone:             (303) 797-0155 Longitude:              -105.0024
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                344 S:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                        1.41 Census Tract:              66.04
                                                                               Density:                     42.55 Condo Map:                   No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5744/ 5078
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                  1983 Attached Garage:                0
                                                                               Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:           Frm&Side Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:            Comp Shngl Open:                           50
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.83
                                                                               Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 0.83
                                                                               Rentable SF:                36000

              OWNER                             MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions       South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                $3,680,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date                  07/25/2002
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit               $61,333
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                $300R    Price/SF                 $102.22
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Cable TV Opt                            Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Disposal                                                              Gas:         Master
Frst Free Ref                                                         Elect:         Indiv
Storage Room                                                          Water:       Master
                                                                      Util        System
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS      Heat:         Boiler
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Cool:         None
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Hot Wa:        Boiler
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                            Paid By
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                      Heat:       X        Gas
                                                                      Cool:       X        None
                                                                      Hot Water:       X Gas
                                                                      Stove:           X Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                      Trash:
                                     UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
                    Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths   SF Unf Low    High $/SF    Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   60 1 / 1   600 U   $845 $0     $1.41 $1.41                   $845        $845/0       INCOME: HUD Section 8 rents are 30% of
                 60         600     $845        $1.41 $1.41                                            adjusted gross income, and deposit is one
                                                                                                       month's rent. Market rents are unavailable.
                                                                                                       MISC: Age restricted. 100% Section 8.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                   1Q 2013
                          AMITY PLAZA                                                              PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               200 W. Sterne Pkwy.                 Total Units                 180
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-27-2-11-016
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:               39.593665
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 795-0462 Longitude:            -104.992335
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                374 B:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       4.10 Census Tract:               66.03
                                                                               Density:                    43.90 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5871/ 5024
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1978 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:          Conc&Brk Covered:                          0
                                                                               Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                        145
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.81
                                                                               Stories                          7 Parking/Bed                 0.81
                                                                               Rentable SF:              101700

              OWNER                             MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions       South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                $6,455,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date                  08/12/2003
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed             Dogs    Price/unit               $35,861
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                  $0R    Price/SF                  $63.47
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Cable TV Opt                            Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Frst Free Ref                           Laundry Room                  Gas:         Master
Priv Bal/Patio                                                        Elect:       Master
Storage Room                                                          Water:       Master
                                                                      Util        System
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS      Heat:         Boiler
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Cool:         None
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Hot Wa:        Boiler
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                           Paid By
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                      Heat:      X        Gas
                                                                      Cool:      X        None
                                                                      Hot Water: X        Gas
                                                                      Stove:     X        Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:     X
                                                                      Sewer:     X
                                                                      Trash:
                                      UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                   COMMENTS
                     Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                   Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF Unf Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF              Low Rent     /NR Fee     CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   180 1 / 1   565 U   $746 $0     $1.32 $1.32                  $746         $746/0      INCOME: Market rents are shown. HUD
                 180         565     $746        $1.32 $1.32                                           Section 8 rents are 30% of adjusted gross
                                                                                                       income, and deposit is one month's rent.
                                                                                                       MISC: Age restricted. 100% Section 8.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                  1Q 2013
                       BRADLEY HOUSE                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                               5844 S. Datura                      Total Units                  77
                                                                               Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-4-21-027
                                                                               County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61026
                                                                               Phone:            (303) 794-9608 Longitude:              -105.00385
                                                                               Classification:                     Map Book:                344 S:
                                                                               Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                               Acres:                       1.80 Census Tract:               66.04
                                                                               Density:                    42.78 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                               Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5753/ 5086
                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                               Year Built:                 1975 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                               Style:                  Mid (Elv) Detached Garage:                0
                                                                               Construction:           Concrete Covered:                         0
                                                                               Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         55
                                                                               Rental Bldgs                     1 Parking/Unit                0.71
                                                                               Stories                          6 Parking/Bed                 0.71
                                                                               Rentable SF:               40656

                 OWNER                          MANAGER                                    POLICIES                           LAST SALE
City of Littleton                   South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                12 month   Amount                             N/A
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)     (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee              $0    Date
5745 S. Bannock St.                 5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Littleton, CO 80120                 Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                      (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                $300R    Price/SF
                                                                                Pet Charge/Mo              $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                      COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Air Cond                                BBQ                           Util          Meter
Disposal                                Clubhouse                     Gas:         Master
Frst Free Ref                           Computer Room                 Elect:         Indiv
Microwave                               Controlled Entry              Water:       Master
Priv Bal/Patio                          Kitchen                       Util        System
Slf-Cln Oven                            Laundry Room                  Heat:         Boiler
Walk-ins                                Theater                       Cool:          Indiv
                                                                      Hot Wa:       Boiler
              VACANCY                          AFFORDABLE STATUS                Paid By
Curr Qtr                           0%   Gov't Subsidized:        100% Util      Own Res Fuel:
Prev Qtr                           0%   Rent Restricted:          0% Heat:        X        Gas
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                    0%                                 Cool:       X        Elect
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                     0%                                 Hot Water: X         Gas
                                                                      Stove:      X        Elect
                                                                      ElecOthr: X
                                                                      Water:      X
                                                                      Sewer:      X
                                                                      Trash:      X
                                     UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                    COMMENTS
                    Beds/   Net Fur        Cur Gross Rents                    Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths   SF Unf Low    High $/SF    Av. $/SF               Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   77 1 / 1   528 U   $796 $0     $1.51 $1.51                   $796        $796/0       INCOME: Market rents are shown. HUD
                 77         528     $796        $1.51 $1.51                                            Public Housing rents are 30% of adjusted
                                                                                                       gross income, and deposit is one month's
                                                                                                       rent.
                                                                                                       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
                                                                                                       MISC: HUD Public Housing. Age restricted.
                                                                                                       Property has three recreation rooms, two
                                                                                                       with kitchens. Manager phone extension is
                                                                                                       130.
1Q 2013                                                  © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                            MAIN STREET                                                               PROPERTY INFORMATION
                                                                                  2350 W. Main St.                    Total Units                  50
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                  APN:           2077-16-3-27-002
                                                                                  County:                 Arapahoe Latitude:                 39.61469
                                                                                  Phone:            (303) 347-1056 Longitude:              -105.01435
                                                                                  Classification:                     Map Book:                343 V:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:                      0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                       0.00 Census Tract:               65.01
                                                                                  Density:                     0.00 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: N/A                      RD NS/ EW:           5722/ 5142
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                           PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                 1999 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                    Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:          Frm&Side Covered:                         35
                                                                                  Roof Type:                Built-up Open:                         42
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                     2 Parking/Unit                1.54
                                                                                  Stories                          3 Parking/Bed                 1.01
                                                                                  Rentable SF:               35132

               OWNER                                MANAGER                                   POLICIES                           LAST SALE
Littleton Main Street LP                 Terra Management Group LLC                Leases              6-12 month   Amount                             N/A
(Hendricks Communities)                   (Terra Management Group LLC)             Applicant Fee              $19   Date
7350 E. Progress Pl.                     7350 E. Progress Pl.                      Pets Allowed              Most   Price/unit
Suite 208                                Suite 208
Greenwood Village, CO 80111              Greenwood Village, CO 80111               Pet Dep.         $200R; $200N    Price/SF
(303) 698-5600                           (303) 698-5600                            Pet Charge/Mo              $20
           UNIT AMENITIES                       COMMUNITY AMENITIES             UTILITIES
9' + Ceilings                              BBQ                           Util          Meter
Air Cond                                   Laundry Room                  Gas:           Indiv
Cable TV Opt                                                             Elect:         Indiv
Ceiling Fans Some                                                        Water:       Master
Dishwasher                                                               Util        System
Disposal                                                                 Heat:          Indiv
Frst Free Ref                                                            Cool:          Indiv
Slf-Cln Oven                                                             Hot Wa:        Indiv
Storage Room                                                                        Paid By
T1 Opt                                                                   Util      Own Res Fuel:
                                                                         Heat:            X Gas
              VACANCY                             AFFORDABLE STATUS      Cool:            X Elect
Curr Qtr                            2%     Gov't Subsidized:          0% Hot Water:       X Gas
Prev Qtr                            2%     Rent Restricted:         100% Stove:           X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                     2%                                   ElecOthr:        X
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                      2%                                   Water:      X
                                                                         Sewer:      X
                                                                         Trash:      X
                                           UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                 COMMENTS
                    Beds/    Net   Fur           Cur Gross Rents                 Prev Qtr    Sec Dep
Model     Type   No Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF       Av. $/SF            Low Rent    /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: $20 off each month with
                                                                                                          12 month lease.
A         Flat   24 1 / 1    557   U     $615 $698 $1.10 $1.18                   $615        $300/0
B         Flat   4 2/1       744   U     $734 $831 $0.99 $1.05                   $734        $350/0       INCOME: Rents increase $20 with covered
                                                                                                          parking.
C         Flat   22 2 / 2    854   U     $734 $831 $0.86 $0.92                   $734        $350/0
                 50          703         $677         $0.96 $1.03                                         MISC: Rent Restricted (4 Model A and 4
                                                                                                          Model B at 40% of area median income and
                                                                                                          42 units at 50%).
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                                                                                                       PROPERTY INFORMATION
                          POWER CIRCLE                                            183 Powers Cir.                      Total Units                  69
                                                                                  Littleton,CO 80120                   APN:           2077-15-3-01-001
                                                                                  County:                  Arapahoe Latitude:               39.614857
                                                                                  Phone:             (720) 232-8845 Longitude:            -104.990017
                                                                                  Classification:                      Map Book:                344 T:
                                                                                  Prop. Rank:                       0 Submarket:                  DSC
                                                                                  Acres:                        0.97 Census Tract:               66.01
                                                                                  Density:                     71.21 Condo Map:                    No
                                                                                  Past Name: Stratford                 RD NS/ EW:           5721/ 5012
                                                                                  Commons
                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION                            PARKING
                                                                                  Year Built:                  1961 Attached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Style:                     Garden Detached Garage:                 0
                                                                                  Construction:                Brick Covered:                        0
                                                                                  Roof Type:                 Built-up Open:                         25
                                                                                  Rental Bldgs                      3 Parking/Unit                0.36
                                                                                  Stories                           3 Parking/Bed                 0.23
                                                                                  Rentable SF:                50570

              OWNER                                MANAGER                                    POLICIES                         LAST SALE
South Metro Housing Solutions          South Metro Housing Solutions               Leases                 12 month Amount               $3,500,000
 (South Metro Housing Solutions)        (South Metro Housing Solutions)            Applicant Fee               $0 Date                  10/16/2008
5745 S. Bannock St.                    5745 S. Bannock St.                         Pets Allowed              None Price/unit               $50,725
Littleton, CO 80120                    Littleton, CO 80120
(303) 794-9608                         (303) 794-9608                              Pet Dep.                        Price/SF                 $69.21
                                                                                   Pet Charge/Mo               $0
          UNIT AMENITIES                         COMMUNITY AMENITIES            UTILITIES
Air Cond                                   Controlled Entry              Util          Meter
Cable TV Opt                               Laundry Room                  Gas:         Master
Ceiling Fans Some                                                        Elect:         Indiv
Dishwasher                                                               Water:       Master
Disposal                                                                 Util        System
Frst Free Ref                                                            Heat:         Boiler
Storage Rm Some                                                          Cool:          Indiv
Walk-ins                                                                 Hot Wa:       Boiler
                                                                                   Paid By
              VACANCY                             AFFORDABLE STATUS      Util      Own Res Fuel:
Curr Qtr                             48%   Gov't Subsidized:          0% Heat:       X        Gas
Prev Qtr                             12%   Rent Restricted:         100% Cool:            X Elect
Avg Last 4 Qtrs                      26%                                 Hot Water: X         Gas
Cur Qtr Yr Ago                       10%                                 Stove:           X Elect
                                                                         ElecOthr:        X
                                                                         Water:      X
                                                                         Sewer:      X
                                                                         Trash:      X
                                            UNIT MIX/RENTS                                                                COMMENTS
                      Beds/    Net   Fur          Cur Gross Rents                Prev Qtr     Sec Dep
Model     Type   No   Baths    SF    Unf   Low High $/SF      Av. $/SF           Low Rent     /NR Fee      CONCESSIONS: None
A         Flat   15   Studio   475   U     $495 $0     $1.04 $1.04               $495         $495/0       UTILITIES: AC units are wall.
B         Flat   17   1/1      600   U     $595 $0     $0.99 $0.99               $595         $595/0
                                                                                                           MISC: Leasing halted due to major
C         Flat   35   2/1      895   U     $695 $0     $0.78 $0.78               $695         $695/0       renovation. Rent restricted (30% to 60% of
D         Flat   2    3/1      960   U     $775 $0     $0.81 $0.81               $775         $775/0       area median income). Changed from a
                                                                                                           conventionally-operated property 4th quarter
                 69            733         $629        $0.86 $0.86
                                                                                                           2011.
1Q 2013                                                     © Colorado Apartment Insights                                                    1Q 2013
                   LITTLETON STATION




       EXHIBIT B
  LITTLETON AVAILABLE
OFFICE/COMMERCIAL SPACE




           23
                                                                       5/3/2013
This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                       Page 17
   1                                                        2606 W Alamo Ave - Bldg A




         Location: Bldg A                                                                            Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                               Status:          Built 1924, Renov 2000
                   Arapahoe County                                                                         Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                        RBA:           2,305 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         1,152 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Sunny Day Properties LLC                                                            Total Avail: 2,305 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 0%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Sunny Day Properties LLC

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.38/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-13-006
          Parking: 6 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.76/1,000 SF


           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
E BSMT                                   1,130                1,130                   1,130                       $18.22/mg      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Sunny Day Properties LLC / David Day (303) 795-1115
E 1st                                    1,175                1,175                   1,175                       $18.22/mg      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Sunny Day Properties LLC / David Day (303) 795-1115




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 1
   2                                                2305 W Berry Ave - Geneva Lodge




         Location: Geneva Lodge                                                                     Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1926
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           6,285 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         3,142 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                               Total Avail: 1,275 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 79.7%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Littleton City Of

   Parcel Number: 2077-16-2-17-003


           Floor                 SF Avail           Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd                                    1,275               1,275                1,275                            $15.00/fs    Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 2
   3                                            1100 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Office




         Location: Littleton Office                                                                  Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built Jan 1960
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          4
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           24,320 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         6,080 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                               Total Avail: 3,751 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 89.0%
   Management:       Nova Shalom Ministries, Inc.
Recorded Owner:      Fernalld Steve

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.64/sf; 2011 Ops @ $3.76/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-29-001, 2077-16-4-29-002, 2077-16-4-29-003, 2077-16-4-29-004, 2077-16-4-29-005, 2077-16-4-29-006,
                   2077-16-4-29-007, 2077-16-4-29-008, 2077-16-4-29-009, 2077-16-4-29-010, 2077-16-4-29-011, 2077-16-4-29-012,
                   2077-16-4-29-013, 2077-16-4-29-014, 2077-16-4-29-015, 2077-16-4-29-016, 2077-16-4-29-017, 2077-16-4-29-018,
                   2077-16-4-29-019, 2077-16-4-29-020, 2077-16-4-29-021, 2077-16-4-29-022, 2077-16-4-29-023, 2077-16-4-29-024,
                   2077-16-4-29-025, 2077-16-4-29-026, 2077-16-4-29-027, 2077-16-4-29-028, 2077-16-4-29-029, 2077-16-4-29-030,
                   2077-16-4-29-031, 2077-16-4-29-032
          Parking: 53 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.40/1,000 SF


        Floor                SF Avail            Floor Contig         Bldg Contig            Price           Rent/SF/Yr + Svs       Occupancy       Term     Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                        673               673                   673          $75,000                 $11.59/fs    Vacant       1-5 yrs    Direct
Sales Company(Condo): Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide; Greg H. Knott, (303) 321-5888; Brad Gilpin, (303) 321-5888
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225
P 3rd / Suite 330                       277                277                277        $25,000                      $15.16/fs    30 Days      1-5 yrs    Direct
Sales Company(Condo): Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide; Greg H. Knott, (303) 321-5888; Brad Gilpin, (303) 321-5888
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225
P 3rd / Suite 360                       801                801                801             No                      $10.48/fs    30 Days      1-5 yrs    Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Greg H. Knott (303) 321-5888 / Brad Gilpin (303) 321-5888 x225




                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 3
   4                                                         1271-1299 W Littleton Blvd




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                         Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                         Status:          Built 1968
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                    Stories:          1
                                                                                                              RBA:           9,600 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         4,800 SF
   Landlord Rep:       John Bartell                                                                      Total Avail: 2,700 SF
      Developer:       -                                                                                 % Leased: 71.9%
   Management:         -
Recorded Owner:        1299 Properties

       Expenses:       2010 Tax @ $1.61/sf
   Parcel Number:      2077-16-4-12-008
          Parking:     18 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.08/1,000 SF
       Amenities:      Corner Lot


           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st                                        1,000            1,000                   1,000                         $9.60/mg     Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
John Bartell / John Bartell (303) 716-3100 x109
P 1st                                  950 - 1,700            1,700                   1,700                       $11.00/mg      Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
John Bartell / John Bartell (303) 716-3100 x109




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 4
   5                                                                  1449 W Littleton Blvd




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                            Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                            Status:          Built 1960
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       Stories:          2
                                                                                                                 RBA:           8,910 SF
                                                                                                         Typical Floor:         4,455 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Follow Real Estate Inc.                                                               Total Avail: 1,565 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                     % Leased: 82.4%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Ghaffari Ents LLC

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.61/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-10-018
          Parking: 30 Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 4.26/1,000 SF


           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 105                              400                 400                       400                       $12.75/fs    Vacant         Negotiable     Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800
P 2nd                                    225 - 925                 925                       925                    $11.00/nnn      Vacant         2-5 yrs        Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800
P 2nd / Suite 203                              240                 240                       240                    $11.00/nnn      Vacant         2 yrs          Direct
Follow Real Estate Inc. / Shean Gaffari (303) 798-6800




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                         This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 5
   6                                          1950 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Station




         Location: Littleton Station                                                                Building Type: Class B Office/Office/Residential
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                             Status:          Built May 2007
                   Arapahoe County                                                                       Stories:          3
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                      RBA:           11,523 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         11,523 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Consolidated Investment Group, LLC                                                  Total Avail: 4,386 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 61.9%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Littleton Station LLC

   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-14-007
          Parking: 40 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.00/1,000 SF



        Floor                SF Avail           Floor Contig         Bldg Contig            Price           Rent/SF/Yr + Svs       Occupancy       Term     Type
P 1st / Suite 103                      1,543             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212
P 1st / Suite 105                      1,504             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212
P 1st / Suite 107                      1,339             4,386                4,386                 No               Withheld     Vacant       3-5 yrs    Direct
Consolidated Investment Group, LLC / Adam L. Berger (303) 789-2664 x212




                                                                                                                                                          5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 6
   7                                       2009 W Littleton Blvd - Court House Offices




         Location: Court House Offices                                                              Building Type: Class B Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1960, Renov 2011
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          3
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           7,606 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         2,550 SF
   Landlord Rep:    BRC Real Estate                                                                     Total Avail: 3,243 SF
      Developer:    Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                      % Leased: 100%
   Management:      LCP Management
Recorded Owner:     Lcp 2009 Llc

 Sales Company: BRC Real Estate: Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
       Expenses: 2012 Est Tax @ $2.07/sf; 2012 Est Ops @ $4.79/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-07-005
          Parking: 23 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.00/1,000 SF


          Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig              Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                       1,704                1,704                   1,704                $16.00-$18.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
P 2nd / Suite 210                         841                  841                       841              $16.00-$18.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575
P 3rd / Suite 310                         698                  698                       698              $18.00-$20.00/fs      30 Days        3-5 yrs      Direct
BRC Real Estate / Carole Schumacher (303) 541-1575




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 7
   8                                              2329 W Main St - Little Town Office




         Location: Little Town Office                                                              Building Type: Class B Office
                   NWC Sycamore St & Main St
                   Southwest Denver Cluster                                                               Status:          Built 1985
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                            Stories:          3
                   Arapahoe County                                                                          RBA:           39,994 SF
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                              Typical Floor:         13,331 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Arapahoe Property Management                                                      Total Avail: 6,950 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 88.6%
   Management:       Arapahoe Property Management
Recorded Owner:      John D. & Chaplin Scism

       Expenses:     2010 Tax @ $2.19/sf
   Parcel Number:    2077-16-3-05-021
          Parking:   23 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.86/1,000 SF
       Amenities:    Corner Lot


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 201                        2,400              2,400                   2,400                         $18.00/fs    30 Days        1-5 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766
P 2nd / Suite 212                          150                150                       150                       Withheld     Vacant         1-3 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766
P 3rd / Suite 300                        4,400              4,400                   4,400                         $18.00/fs    Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 8
   9                                                                        2516 W Main St




          Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                          Building Type: Class B Office/Medical
                    Southwest Denver Submarket
                    Arapahoe County                                                                          Status:          Built 1932
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                     Stories:          1
                                                                                                               RBA:           5,700 SF
                                                                                                       Typical Floor:         5,700 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Littleton Holistic Medicine                                                         Total Avail: 5,700 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                   % Leased: 0%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Ancient Art Llc

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.74/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-07-008

           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
E 1st                                  300 - 5,700             5,700                   5,700                      $25.00/nnn      Vacant         1-5 yrs      Direct
Littleton Holistic Medicine / Ruth Graham (720) 935-1340




                                                                                                                                                               5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                Page 9
  10                                                               2560-2590 W Main St




         Location: AKA 2570 W Main St                                                               Building Type: Class B Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                              Status:          Built 1901
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                       RBA:           11,000 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         5,500 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC                                                 Total Avail: 1,450 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 86.8%
   Management:       Che Bella Properties Inc
Recorded Owner:      Che Bella Properties Inc

       Expenses:     2010 Tax @ $0.79/sf, 2013 Est Tax @ $2.50/sf; 2013 Est Ops @ $2.50/sf
   Parcel Number:    2077-17-4-07-001, 2077-17-4-07-014
          Parking:   22 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.00/1,000 SF
       Amenities:    Corner Lot


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 2560                         1,450              1,450               1,450                         $24.00/nnn      Vacant         3-5 yrs      Direct
Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC / Eric Shaw (303) 962-9551 / Brandon Gouker (303) 962-9572




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 10
  11                                                                    5602 S Nevada St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                          Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                          Status:          Built 1942
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                     Stories:          -
                                                                                                              RBA:           3,718 SF
                                                                                                      Typical Floor:         3,718 SF
   Landlord Rep:     O.P. Inc. Commercial Real Estate                                                    Total Avail: 3,718 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased: 100%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Nevada Street Office Suites

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $3.83/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-05-001

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
E 1st                                664 - 3,718              3,718                   3,718                      $20.00/nnn      08/2013        Negotiable   Direct
O.P. Inc. Commercial Real Estate / Kevin Sherrod (303) 210-4714




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 11
  12                                                                5564-5574 Prince St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                        Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                        Status:          Built 1980
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                   Stories:          2
                                                                                                            RBA:           7,352 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         3,824 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates                                                     Total Avail: 712 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 90.3%
   Management:       Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates
Recorded Owner:      Alcorn Thomas L & Lois A Trust

       Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $2.21/sf, 2012 Est Tax @ $2.31/sf; 2011 Ops @ $1.05/sf, 2012 Est Ops @ $1.80/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-04-006, 2077-16-3-04-007
          Parking: 50 free Surface Spaces are available


           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 2nd / Suite 9                            712                712                       712              $16.00-$17.00/fs      Vacant         Negotiable   Direct
Thomas L. Alcorn & Associates / Thomas L. Alcorn (303) 797-1554




                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 12
  13                                                   5994 S Prince St - Sycamore Hill




          Location: Sycamore Hill                                                                     Building Type: Class C Office
                    Southwest Denver Cluster
                    Southwest Denver Submarket                                                               Status:          Built 1985
                    Arapahoe County                                                                         Stories:          2
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                                        RBA:           6,420 SF
                                                                                                       Typical Floor:         3,210 SF
   Landlord Rep:      Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC                                                  Total Avail: 783 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                   % Leased: 87.8%
   Management:        -
Recorded Owner:       Case Family Investments, LLC

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.05/sf; 2010 Ops @ $4.98/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-21-2-31-005

           Floor                  SF Avail           Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 200                            783                 783                       783              $14.00-$16.00/fs      Vacant         1-3 yrs      Direct
Pinnacle Real Estate Advisors, LLC / Gregory A. Titus (303) 962-9555




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 13
  14                                                                      5767 S Rapp St




         Location: Southwest Denver Cluster                                                         Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Submarket
                   Arapahoe County                                                                         Status:          Built 1916
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                    Stories:          1
                                                                                                             RBA:           1,768 SF
                                                                                                     Typical Floor:         1,768 SF
   Landlord Rep:     Cherry Creek Properties LLC                                                        Total Avail: 1,768 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                  % Leased: 100%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Keenaco Llc

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.92/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-00-041

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term          Type
E 1st                                     1,768              1,768                   1,768                      $22.40/nnn      30 Days        Thru Jul 2017   Sublet
Newmark Grubb Knight Frank / Frank Griffin (303) 260-4345




                                                                                                                                                               5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 14
  15                                        5808 S Rapp St - Little Creek Office Building




         Location: Little Creek Office Building                                                    Building Type: Class C Office
                   Southwest Denver Cluster
                   Southwest Denver Submarket                                                             Status:          Built 1983
                   Arapahoe County                                                                       Stories:          2
                   Littleton, CO 80120                                                                      RBA:           30,678 SF
                                                                                                    Typical Floor:         15,339 SF
   Landlord Rep:     John Propp Commercial Group                                                       Total Avail: 7,919 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased: 74.2%
   Management:       -
Recorded Owner:      Kristin L Alexander

       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.70/sf
   Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-18-021, 2077-22-1-10-023
          Parking: 10 Covered Spaces are available; Ratio of 4.00/1,000 SF


           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 113                         150                150                 150                   $15.00/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 1st / Suite 116                         150                150                 150                   $15.00/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 205                       1,285              1,285               1,285                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 211                         520                520                 520                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 225                         630                630                 630                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 230                       1,062              1,062               1,062                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107
P 2nd / Suite 250                       1,573              1,573               1,573                   $12.50/fs               Vacant         2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107


                                                                                                                                                           5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                           Page 15
  15                             5808 S Rapp St - Little Creek Office Building(cont'd)
           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs         Occupancy         Term      Type
P 2nd / Suite 270                       2,549              2,549               2,549                   $12.50/fs           Vacant        2-5 yrs      Direct
John Propp Commercial Group / John V. Propp (303) 692-1816 x102 / Jeremiah G. Maupin (303) 692-1816 x107




                                                                                                                                                      5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                      Page 16
                  LITTLETON STATION




     EXHIBIT C
LITTLETON AVAILABLE
   RETAIL SPACE




         24
                                                                       5/3/2013
This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                       Page 18
   1                                         2610 W Belleview Ave - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                         Building Type:           Retail/(Neighborhood Center)
                     Southwest Ret Submarket                                                         Bldg Status:           Built 2008
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          9,918 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                       Typical Floor Size:          9,918 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           1.07 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          1,800 SF
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                    % Leased:            81.9%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                          Smallest Space:            1,800 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           1800
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $2.95/sf; 2011 Ops @ $2.95/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005

        Amenities: Drive Thru, Pylon Sign, Signage
  Street Frontage: 89 feet on Belleview(with 3 curb cuts)
          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 1st                                     1,800              1,800                   1,800                      $25.00/nnn      Vacant         Negotiable   Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                             5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 1
   2                                2630 W Belleview Ave - Bldg E - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Bldg E                                                                        Building Type: Retail/Storefront Retail/Office (Neighborhood
                     SEC Belleview Ave & Prince St                                                                 Center)
                     Southwest Ret Cluster                                                           Bldg Status: Built Jan 2008
                     Southwest Ret Submarket
                                                                                                    Building Size: 19,079 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size: 9,553 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                                  Stories: 2
                                                                                                       Land Area: 1.97 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                   Total Avail:          1,100 SF
   Management:       LCP Management                                                                    % Leased:            100%
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $4.14/sf; 2011 Ops @ $4.14/sf                                       Smallest Space:            1,100 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           -
  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005


          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs             Occupancy        Term       Type
P GRND                                    1,100              1,100                   1,100                      $25.00/nnn      30 Days       Negotiable   Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 2
   3                                         2650 W Belleview Ave - Riverside Downs




         Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                         Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Neighborhood Center)
                     Southwest Ret Submarket                                                         Bldg Status:           Built 2007
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          48,832 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80123                                                       Typical Floor Size:          48,832 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           4.13 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          18,000 SF
      Developer:     Littleton Capital Partners LLC                                                    % Leased:            100%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Hillside Farms, LP                                                          Smallest Space:            3,000 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           -
        Expenses: 2011 Tax @ $1.57/sf; 2011 Ops @ $1.57/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-06-005

        Amenities: Drive Thru, Pylon Sign, Signage
  Street Frontage: 226 feet on Prince St
                   131 feet on Centennial Dr

          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term        Type
P 1st                            3,000 - 18,000             18,000                  18,000                      $18.00/nnn      30 Days        Negotiable    Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Scott Hagan (303) 694-6082 x327




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                               Page 3
   4                                       2897 W Belleview Ave - Centennial Square




        Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                      Building Type:           Retail/(Neighborhood Center)
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                      Bldg Status:           Built 1980
                    Arapahoe County                                                             Building Size:          6,396 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                    Typical Floor Size:          6,396 SF
                                                                                                      Stories:          1
                                                                                                   Land Area:           0.57 AC
   Landlord Rep:    CBRE                                                                          Total Avail:          1,077 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                              % Leased:            100%
   Management:      -                                                                     Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Centennial Milner Llc                                                    Smallest Space:            1,077 SF
                                                                                                 Bldg Vacant:           -
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.95/sf; 2010 Ops @ $2.07/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-08-4-08-001
           CAM: $5.30

       Amenities: Pylon Sign, Signage
 Street Frontage: 216 feet on Belleview Ave(with 2 curb cuts)
          Parking: 55 free Surface Spaces are available

          Floor                 SF Avail        Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term       Type
P 1st / Suite 2897D                     1,077            1,077                   1,077                      $18.00/nnn      30 Days        Negotiable   Direct
CBRE / Matthew Debartolomeis (720) 528-6324




                                                                                                                                                         5/3/2013
                                                 This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                          Page 4
   5                                                                     5794 S Datura St




         Location:    South Ret Cluster                                                             Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding
                      South Ret Submarket                                                             Bldg Status:           Built 1966
                      Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          17,912 SF
                      Littleton, CO 80120                                                       Typical Floor Size:          17,912 SF
                                                                                                           Stories:          1
                                                                                                        Land Area:           1.88 AC
   Landlord Rep:      Bitzer Real Estate Partners                                                      Total Avail:          17,912 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                 % Leased:            100%
   Management:        -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:       Mitchell Roger T Jr & Patricia                                              Smallest Space:            17,912 SF
                                                                                                      Bldg Vacant:           -
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.21/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-21-003
 Sales Company: Bitzer Real Estate Partners: Brady Welsh (720) 264-3486

        Amenities: Pylon Sign
  Street Frontage: 169 feet on Datura St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 130 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 7.26/1,000 SF

           Floor                  SF Avail           Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term       Type
E 1st                                     17,912             17,912                  17,912                         Withheld     Negotiable        Negotiable   Direct
Bitzer Real Estate Partners / Brady Welsh (720) 264-3486




                                                                                                                                                                 5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 5
   6                                        5151 S Federal Blvd - Columbine Square




        Location:   Southwest Ret Cluster                                                        Building Type:           Retail/Restaurant (Community Center)
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                        Bldg Status:           Built 1976
                    Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          8,175 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                      Typical Floor Size:          8,175 SF
                                                                                                        Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           0.97 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co.                                               Total Avail:          8,175 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            0%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Cmcb Enterprise Inc                                                        Smallest Space:            8,175 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           8175
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.11/sf; 2010 Ops @ $1.83/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-2-15-017


          Parking: -
          Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs             Occupancy        Term            Type
E 1st                                    8,175             8,175                   8,175                         Withheld     Vacant        Negotiable     Direct
Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co. / Charles Nusbaum (303) 758-3131




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                             Page 6
   7                                           5302 S Federal Cir - Centennial Plaza




        Location:   Centennial Plaza                                                             Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                    Southwest Ret Cluster                                                          Bldg Status:           Built 1984
                    Southwest Ret Submarket                                                       Building Size:          18,013 SF
                    Arapahoe County                                                          Typical Floor Size:          18,013 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80123                                                                 Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           1.60 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                            Total Avail:          2,958 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            83.6%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Csip Inc                                                                   Smallest Space:            2,958 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           2958
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $3.47/sf; 2002 Est Ops @ $2.42/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-2-17-001
           CAM: $6.50

       Amenities: Corner Lot

          Parking: 67 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 3.59/1,000 SF

          Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy              Term      Type
P 1st                                   2,958              2,958                   2,958                      $12.00/nnn       Vacant             1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Gannon Roth (720) 881-6334




                                                                                                                                                                5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                 Page 7
   8                                          1210-1228 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Plaza




         Location:    AKA 1210-1290 W Littleton Blvd                                                Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                      South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1955
                      South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          17,191 SF
                      Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          17,191 SF
                      Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                        Land Area:           28 AC
   Landlord Rep:      Metro Brokers, Inc.                                                               Total Avail:         3,900 SF
      Developer:      -                                                                                  % Leased:           77.3%
   Management:        -                                                                         Total Spaces Avail:          2
Recorded Owner:       LSMFT, LLC                                                                   Smallest Space:           900 SF
                                                                                                       Bldg Vacant:          3900
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.07/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-30-001

        Amenities: Pylon Sign
  Street Frontage: 139 feet on West Littleton Blvd(with 1 curb cut)
           Parking: 60 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 2.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                   SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy              Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 1222                             900              900                       900                     $11.67/mg       Vacant             2-3 yrs      Direct
Metro Brokers, Inc. / John Bagnall (303) 779-7979
P 1st / Suite 1228                   1,000 - 3,000            3,000                   3,000                       $10.00/mg       Vacant             2-3 yrs      Direct
Metro Brokers, Inc. / John Bagnall (303) 779-7979




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                      This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 8
   9                                            1360 W Littleton Blvd - Littleton Plaza




         Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                             Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Strip Center)
                     South Ret Submarket                                                             Bldg Status:           Built 1995
                     Arapahoe County                                                                Building Size:          10,210 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                       Typical Floor Size:          10,210 SF
                                                                                                          Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           1.52 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co.                                                Total Avail:          2,168 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            78.8%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Michael Haile Gebre & Tsehaye                                               Smallest Space:            2,168 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           2168
        Expenses: 2012 Tax @ $1.82/sf; 2012 Ops @ $3.85/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-21-044
           CAM: $5.67


  Street Frontage: 285 feet on Littleton Blvd(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 75 free Surface Spaces are available

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term           Type
P 1st                                     2,168              2,168                   2,168               $8.00-$10.00/nnn       Vacant          Negotiable       Direct
Dunton Commercial Real Estate Co. / Chris Vincent (720) 382-7312




                                                                                                                                                                  5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 9
  10           1500 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Center - Woodlawn Shopping Center




         Location:   Woodlawn Center                                                               Building Type:           Retail/Freestanding (Neighborhood Center)
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1956, Renov 2009
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          92,654 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          92,654 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          2
                                                                                                       Land Area:           6.14 AC
   Landlord Rep:     David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc.                                             Total Avail:          21,793 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            87.3%
   Management:       LCP Management                                                           Total Spaces Avail:           6
Recorded Owner:      LCP 1500 LLC                                                                Smallest Space:            1,050 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           11793
      Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.93/sf, 2011 Est Tax @ $1.98/sf; 2010 Ops
                 @ $2.54/sf, 2011 Est Ops @ $2.32/sf
  Parcel Number: 2077-16-4-22-014

Anchor Tenant(s): Family Dollar Stores Of Colorado, Inc
       Amenities: Corner Lot, Signage, Signalized Intersection
  Street Frontage: 333 feet on W Littleton Blvd
                   219 feet on S Datura St
                   623 feet on S Windermere St


          Parking: 460 free Surface Spaces are available; Ratio of 5.00/1,000 SF

           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy         Term       Type
P LL / Suite 140                         10,000             10,000                  10,000                        $8.00/nnn     30 Days        1-5 yrs       Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 1st / Suite 104                         2,000              2,000                   2,000                      $15.00/nnn      Vacant         3-10 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 1st / Suite 113                         1,050              1,050                   1,050                      $15.00/nnn      Vacant         3-10 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303


                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 10
  10 1500 W Littleton Blvd - Woodlawn Center - Woodlawn Shopping Center(con
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs            Occupancy         Term      Type
P 1st / Suite 126-127                        4,000           4,000                   4,000                      $15.00/nnn     Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303
P 2nd / Suite 207                    1,500 - 3,012           3,012                   3,012                        $9.00/nnn    Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
Littleton Capital Partners LLC / Mark Best (303) 797-9119
P 2nd / Suite 208                            1,731           1,731                   1,731                         $10.00/fs   Vacant        1-5 yrs      Direct
David Hicks & Lampert Brokerage Inc. / Ken Himel (303) 694-6082 x303




                                                                                                                                                          5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                          Page 11
  11                                        2569-2575 W Main St - Batschelet Building




         Location:   Batschelet Building                                                           Building Type:           Retail/Storefront Retail/Office
                     AKA 5660 S Curtice St                                                           Bldg Status:           Built 1908, Renov 2007
                     South Ret Cluster                                                              Building Size:          10,780 SF
                     South Ret Submarket                                                       Typical Floor Size:          5,390 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                                      Stories:          2
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                               Land Area:           0.34 AC
   Landlord Rep:     DePaul Real Estate Investment Group, Inc.                                        Total Avail:          4,645 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            56.9%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Partners 1 Llc                                                  Smallest Space:            4,645 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4645
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.73/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-04-020


  Street Frontage: 77 feet on Main St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 30 free Surface Spaces are available
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy          Term       Type
P 1st / Suite 2575                         4,645             4,645                   4,645                      $28.00/nnn       Vacant          Negotiable   Direct
DePaul Real Estate Investment Group, Inc. / Matthew Watson (303) 333-9799




                                                                                                                                                              5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                              Page 12
  12                                              2670 W Main St - Main Street Station




         Location:   Main Street Station                                                           Building Type:           Retail
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1925, Renov Feb 2013
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          4,535 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          4,535 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           0.15 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Cassidy Turley Colorado                                                          Total Avail:          4,535 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            0%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Station LLC                                                     Smallest Space:            4,535 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4535
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.56/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-08-010
  Loading Docks: -                                                                                  Ceiling Height: 12'
 Sales Company: Cassidy Turley Colorado: David Fried (303) 292-3700, Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547

          Parking:    Ratio of 1.20/1,000 SF

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term      Type
E 1st                                      4,535              4,535               9,172                            Withheld     Vacant         Negotiable   New
Cassidy Turley Colorado / David Fried (303) 292-3700 / Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 13
  13                                              2680 W Main St - Main Street Station




         Location:   Main Street Station                                                           Building Type:           Retail
                     South Ret Cluster                                                               Bldg Status:           Built 1929, Renov Feb 2013
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Building Size:          4,637 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                           Typical Floor Size:          4,637 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                  Stories:          1
                                                                                                       Land Area:           0.15 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Cassidy Turley Colorado                                                          Total Avail:          4,637 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                 % Leased:            0%
   Management:       -                                                                        Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Main Street Station LLC                                                     Smallest Space:            4,637 SF
                                                                                                     Bldg Vacant:           4637
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $2.58/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-4-08-011
 Sales Company: Cassidy Turley Colorado: David Fried (303) 292-3700, Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547

  Street Frontage: 82 feet on Main St(with 1 curb cut)
          Parking: 12 free Surface Spaces are available

           Floor                  SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy        Term      Type
E 1st                                      4,637              4,637               9,172                            Withheld     Vacant         Negotiable   New
Cassidy Turley Colorado / David Fried (303) 292-3700 / Robert Hudgins (303) 575-1547




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                     This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 14
  14                                                                   5654 S Prince St




         Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                            Building Type:           Retail/Storefront Retail/Residential
                     South Ret Submarket                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 1985
                     Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          45,147 SF
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                      Typical Floor Size:          12,826 SF
                                                                                                         Stories:          4
                                                                                                      Land Area:           0.65 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Arapahoe Property Management                                                    Total Avail:          1,725 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                % Leased:            96.2%
   Management:       -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:      Chaplin Bonnie                                                             Smallest Space:            1,725 SF
                                                                                                    Bldg Vacant:           1725
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $0.42/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-05-020


  Street Frontage: 183 feet on Prince St(with 0 curb cut)
          Parking: 30 free Surface Spaces are available; 26 Covered Spaces are available
           Floor                 SF Avail          Floor Contig           Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy          Term            Type
P 1st / Suite d                          1,725              1,725                   1,725                       $22.00/mg      Vacant          3-5 yrs            Direct
Arapahoe Property Management / Jeff Keith (303) 797-6766




                                                                                                                                                                  5/3/2013
                                                    This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                  Page 15
  15                                                            5599 S Rio Grande St




        Location:   South Ret Cluster                                                            Building Type:           Retail/Auto Repair
                    South Ret Submarket                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 1958
                    Arapahoe County                                                               Building Size:          3,500 SF
                    Littleton, CO 80120                                                      Typical Floor Size:          3,500 SF
                                                                                                        Stories:          1
                                                                                                     Land Area:           0.20 AC
   Landlord Rep:    Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide                                            Total Avail:          3,500 SF
      Developer:    -                                                                                % Leased:            0%
   Management:      -                                                                       Total Spaces Avail:           1
Recorded Owner:     Eban Bell                                                                  Smallest Space:            3,500 SF
                                                                                                   Bldg Vacant:           3500
       Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $1.68/sf; 2010 Ops @ $1.01/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-16-3-02-010
  Loading Docks: None                                                                             Ceiling Height: 12'


 Street Frontage: 63 feet on S Rio Grande
                  94 feet on Powers Ave

          Parking: 12 free Surface Spaces are available

          Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig            Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy           Term      Type
E 1st                                    3,500             3,500                   3,500                      $12.00/nnn      Vacant           1-5 yrs      Direct
Unique Properties, LLC-TCN Worldwide / Aaron Romero (303) 321-5888




                                                                                                                                                            5/3/2013
                                                   This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                            Page 16
  16                                        5350 S Santa Fe Dr - Shops At Riverbend




         Location:   Shops At Riverbend                                                              Building Type:           Retail/(Strip Center)
                     AKA 5350 S Santa Fe Dr                                                            Bldg Status:           Built 2002
                     South Ret Cluster                                                                Building Size:          16,069 SF
                     South Ret Submarket                                                         Typical Floor Size:          16,069 SF
                     Arapahoe County                                                                        Stories:          1
                     Littleton, CO 80120                                                                 Land Area:           3 AC
   Landlord Rep:     Legend Retail Group                                                                Total Avail:          3,739 SF
      Developer:     -                                                                                   % Leased:            88.0%
   Management:       -                                                                          Total Spaces Avail:           2
Recorded Owner:      JC Riverbend LLC & DG Riverbend LLC                                           Smallest Space:            1,809 SF
                                                                                                       Bldg Vacant:           1930
        Expenses: 2010 Tax @ $6.17/sf; 2010 Ops @ $6.60/sf

  Parcel Number: 2077-17-1-36-001

        Amenities: Food Court, Restaurant, Signage, Signalized Intersection, Tenant Controlled HVAC

          Parking: Free Surface Spaces; Ratio of 3.11/1,000 SF
           Floor                 SF Avail         Floor Contig               Bldg Contig               Rent/SF/Yr + Svs              Occupancy             Term       Type
P 1st                                    1,930                 1,930                   1,930              $23.00-$25.00/nnn        Vacant             Negotiable   Direct
Legend Retail Group / Max A. Jacobson (720) 529-2986
P 1st                                    1,809                 1,809                   1,809              $23.00-$25.00/nnn        30 Days            Negotiable   Direct
Legend Retail Group / Max A. Jacobson (720) 529-2986




                                                                                                                                                                   5/3/2013
                                                       This copyrighted report contains research licensed to CBRE - 602197.
                                                                                                                                                                   Page 17
              LITTLETON STATION




 EXHIBIT D
 LITTLETON
DEMOGRAPHIC
  REPORT




     25
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

      2013     Estimated Population                                          43,091
      2018     Projected Population                                          45,649
      2010     Census Population                                             41,715
      2000     Census Population                                             40,701

      Growth 2010-2013                                                       3.30%
      Growth 2013-2018                                                       5.94%

      2013 Estimated Median Age                                                42.28
      2013 Estimated Average Age                                               41.35

      2013     Estimated Households                                          19,026
      2018     Projected Households                                          20,317
      2010     Census Households                                             18,300
      2000     Census Households                                             17,368

      Growth 2010-2013                                                       3.97%
      Growth 2013-2018                                                       6.78%

      2013 Est. Average Household Size                                           2.23

      2013 Est. Median Household Income                                    $54,989
      2018 Prj. Median Household Income                                    $56,192
      2000 Cen. Median Household Income                                    $51,227

      2013 Est. Average Household Income                                   $80,561
      2013 Estimated Per Capita Income                                     $35,571

      2013 Estimated Housing Units                                           20,218
      2013 Estimated Occupied Units                                          19,026
      2013 Estimated Vacant Units                                              1,191

      2013 Est. Owner Occupied Units                                         11,770
      2013 Est. Renter Occupied Units                                          7,257

      2013 Est. Median Housing Value                                     $256,957
      2013 Est. Average Housing Value                                    $321,000




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Households                                               19,026
     - Income Less than $15,000                                                2,253 (11.8%)
     - Income $15,000 - $24,999                                                1,968 (10.3%)
     - Income $25,000 - $34,999                                                2,065 (10.9%)
     - Income $35,000 - $49,999                                                2,497 (13.1%)
     - Income $50,000 - $74,999                                                3,239 (17.0%)
     - Income $75,000 - $99,999                                                2,379 (12.5%)
     - Income $100,000 - $124,999                                              1,517 (8.0%)
     - Income $125,000 - $149,999                                              1,122 (5.9%)
     - Income $150,000 - $199,999                                                 796 (4.2%)
     - Income $200,000 - $249,999                                                 397 (2.1%)
     - Income $250,000 - $499,999                                                 602 (3.2%)
     - Income Over $500,000                                                       192 (1.0%)

      2013 Est. Average Household Income                                   $80,561
      2018 Prj. Average Household Income                                   $83,163
      2000 Cen. Avg. Household Income                                      $68,869

    2013 Estimated Households                                               19,026
     - 1 Person Household                                                      6,684 (35.1%)
     - 2 Person Household                                                      6,397 (33.6%)
     - 3 Person Household                                                      2,689 (14.1%)
     - 4 Person Household                                                      2,022 (10.6%)
     - 5 Person Household                                                         809 (4.3%)
     - 6 Person Household                                                         274 (1.4%)
     - 7 or More Person Household                                                 151 (.8%)

      2013 Est. Average Household Size                                           2.23

    2013 Estimated Households by                                            19,026
    Number of Vehicles
     - Households with No Vehicles                                             1,324 (7.0%)
     - Households with 1 Vehicle                                               7,222 (38.0%)
     - Households with 2 Vehicles                                              6,758 (35.5%)
     - Households with 3 Vehicles                                              2,772 (14.6%)
     - Households with 4 Vehicles                                                 697 (3.7%)
     - Households with 5+ Vehicles                                                254 (1.3%)

      2013 Est. Average Number of                                                1.76
      Vehicles




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Population by                                            43,091
    Race and Origin
     - White Population                                                      38,185 (88.6%)
     - Black Population                                                           607 (1.4%)
     - Asian Population                                                           955 (2.2%)
     - Pacific Islander Population                                                  29 (.1%)
     - American Indian and Alaska Native                                          340 (.8%)
     - Other Race Population                                                   1,752 (4.1%)
     - Two or More Races Population                                            1,221 (2.8%)
     - Hispanic Population                                                     5,662 (13.1%)
     - White Non-Hispanic Population                                         34,909 (81.0%)

    2013 Estimated Population by Age                                        43,091
     - Aged 0 to 4 Years                                                       2,436 (5.7%)
     - Aged 5 to 9 Years                                                       2,511 (5.8%)
     - Aged 10 to 14 Years                                                     2,498 (5.8%)
     - Aged 15 to 17 Years                                                     1,671 (3.9%)
     - Aged 18 to 20 Years                                                     1,305 (3.0%)
     - Aged 21 to 24 Years                                                     2,182 (5.1%)
     - Aged 25 to 34 Years                                                     5,207 (12.1%)
     - Aged 35 to 44 Years                                                     5,253 (12.2%)
     - Aged 45 to 54 Years                                                     6,579 (15.3%)
     - Aged 55 to 64 Years                                                     6,090 (14.1%)
     - Aged 65 to 74 Years                                                     3,757 (8.7%)
     - Aged 75 to 84 Years                                                     2,382 (5.5%)
     - Aged 85 Years and Older                                                 1,222 (2.8%)

      2013 Estimated Median Age                                                42.28
      2013 Estimated Average Age                                               41.35

    2013 Estimated Population Over                                          30,489
    25 by Educational Attainment
     - Less than 9th Grade                                                        956 (3.1%)
     - High School - No Diploma                                                   924 (3.0%)
     - High School Diploma                                                     5,710 (18.7%)
     - Some College                                                            7,333 (24.1%)
     - Associate Degree                                                        2,289 (7.5%)
     - Bachelor's Degree                                                       8,719 (28.6%)
     - Master's Degree                                                         3,534 (11.6%)
     - Professional Degree                                                        740 (2.4%)
     - Doctoral Degree                                                            284 (.9%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Owner Occupied                                           11,770
    Units by Housing Value
     - Valued Less than $20,000                                                   151 (1.3%)
     - Valued $20,000 - $39,999                                                   291 (2.5%)
     - Valued $40,000 - $59,999                                                     83 (.7%)
     - Valued $60,000 - $79,999                                                     74 (.6%)
     - Valued $80,000 - $99,999                                                   179 (1.5%)
     - Valued $100,000 - $149,999                                                 723 (6.1%)
     - Valued $150,000 - $199,999                                              1,847 (15.7%)
     - Valued $200,000 - $299,999                                              4,211 (35.8%)
     - Valued $300,000 - $399,999                                              1,856 (15.8%)
     - Valued $400,000 - $499,999                                                 898 (7.6%)
     - Valued $500,000 - $749,999                                                 903 (7.7%)
     - Valued $750,000 - $999,999                                                 204 (1.7%)
     - Valued More than $1,000,000                                                349 (3.0%)

      2013 Est. Median Housing Value                                     $256,957
      2013 Est. Average Housing Value                                    $321,000

    2013 Estimated Housing Units by                                         20,218
    Housing Type
     - 1 Unit Detached                                                       10,668 (52.8%)
     - 1 Unit Attached                                                         1,876 (9.3%)
     - 2 Units                                                                    253 (1.3%)
     - 3-4 Units                                                                  522 (2.6%)
     - 5-19 Units                                                              3,349 (16.6%)
     - 20-49 Units                                                             2,060 (10.2%)
     - 50+ Units                                                               1,106 (5.5%)
     - Mobile Home Units                                                          362 (1.8%)
     - Other Units                                                                  20 (.1%)

    2013 Estimated Housing Units by                                         20,218
    Year Structure Built
     - Structure Built 2005 or Later                                              509 (2.5%)
     - Structure Built 2000 to 2004                                            1,631 (8.1%)
     - Structure Built 1990 to 1999                                            3,288 (16.3%)
     - Structure Built 1980 to 1989                                            3,987 (19.7%)
     - Structure Built 1970 to 1979                                            3,699 (18.3%)
     - Structure Built 1960 to 1969                                            2,982 (14.7%)
     - Structure Built 1950 to 1959                                            3,318 (16.4%)
     - Structure Built 1940 to 1949                                               306 (1.5%)
     - Structure Built 1939 or Earlier                                            499 (2.5%)

      2013 Est. Median Year Structure Built                                     1978




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Population by Sex                                        43,091
     - Male                                                                  20,839 (48.4%)
     - Female                                                                22,252 (51.6%)

    2013 Estimated Pop. over 15 by                                          35,647
    Marital Status
     - Male: Never Married                                                     5,066 (14.2%)
     - Male: Married Spouse Absent                                                431 (1.2%)
     - Male: Married Spouse Present                                            9,107 (25.5%)
     - Male: Widowed                                                              413 (1.2%)
     - Male: Divorced                                                          1,997 (5.6%)
     - Female: Never Married                                                   4,323 (12.1%)
     - Female: Married Spouse Absent                                              740 (2.1%)
     - Female: Married Spouse Present                                          8,901 (25.0%)
     - Female: Widowed                                                         2,007 (5.6%)
     - Female: Divorced                                                        2,662 (7.5%)

    2013 Estimated Population in                                                 374
    Group Quarters
     - Institutional Group Quarters                                               329 (88.0%)
     - Non-Institutional Group Quarters                                             45 (12.0%)

    2013 Estimated Occupied Housing                                         19,026
    Units by Year Occ. Moved In
     - Moved In 2005 or Later                                                  9,008 (47.3%)
     - Moved In 2000-2004                                                      3,348 (17.6%)
     - Moved In 1990-1999                                                      3,769 (19.8%)
     - Moved In 1980-1989                                                      1,434 (7.5%)
     - Moved In 1970-1979                                                         800 (4.2%)
     - Moved In 1969 or Earlier                                                   668 (3.5%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Occupation
     - Architect/Engineer                                                         718 (3.3%)
     - Arts/Entertain/Sports                                                      615 (2.8%)
     - Building Grounds Maint                                                     647 (3.0%)
     - Business/Financial Ops                                                  1,660 (7.6%)
     - Community/Soc Svcs                                                         302 (1.4%)
     - Computer/Mathematical                                                   1,010 (4.7%)
     - Construction/Extraction                                                    620 (2.9%)
     - Edu/Training/Library                                                    1,333 (6.1%)
     - Farm/Fish/Forestry                                                           38 (.2%)
     - Food Prep/Serving                                                       1,551 (7.1%)
     - Health Practitioner/Tec                                                 1,351 (6.2%)
     - Healthcare Support                                                         414 (1.9%)
     - Legal                                                                      208 (1.0%)
     - Life/Phys/Soc Science                                                      154 (.7%)
     - Maintenance Repair                                                         630 (2.9%)
     - Management                                                              2,135 (9.8%)
     - Office/Admin Support                                                    3,114 (14.3%)
     - Personal Care/Svc                                                          723 (3.3%)
     - Production                                                                 586 (2.7%)
     - Protective Svcs                                                            473 (2.2%)
     - Sales/Related                                                           2,526 (11.6%)
     - Transportation/Moving                                                      907 (4.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,268
    Population Over 16 by Primary
    Transportation to Work
     - Bicycle                                                                    211 (1.0%)
     - Carpooled                                                               1,440 (6.8%)
     - Drove Alone                                                           16,528 (77.7%)
     - Other                                                                      153 (.7%)
     - Public Transport                                                        1,235 (5.8%)
     - Walked                                                                     391 (1.8%)
     - Worked at Home                                                          1,311 (6.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,334
    Population Over 16 by Travel Time
    to Work
     - Travel Time Less than 15 Min                                            5,032 (23.6%)
     - Travel Time 15-29 Min                                                   7,111 (33.3%)
     - Travel Time 30-44 Min                                                   5,455 (25.6%)
     - Travel Time 45-59 Min                                                   1,502 (7.0%)
     - Travel Time 60+ Min                                                        924 (4.3%)
     - 2013 Est. Average Travel Time                                                27




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 6 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    Estimated Population Over 16                                            35,089
    Years Old by Employment Status
     - Civilian Males                                                        11,093 (31.6%)
     - Civilian Females                                                      10,153 (28.9%)
     - Armed Forces Male                                                            10 (.0%)
     - Armed Forces Female                                                            0
     - Unemployed Males                                                        1,189 (3.4%)
     - Unemployed Females                                                         767 (2.2%)
     - Not in the Labor Force Male                                             4,445 (12.7%)
     - Not in the Labor Force Female                                           7,432 (21.2%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Industry Employed
    In
     - Accommdtn/Food Svcs                                                     1,737 (8.0%)
     - Admin/Spprt/Waste Mgmt                                                     802 (3.7%)
     - Agriculture/Forest/Fish/Hunt/Mine                                          198 (.9%)
     - Construction                                                            1,050 (4.8%)
     - Educational Svcs                                                        1,933 (8.9%)
     - Entertainment/Rec                                                          831 (3.8%)
     - Fin/Insur/RE/Rent/Lse                                                   1,756 (8.1%)
     - Health Care/Soc Asst                                                    2,694 (12.4%)
     - Information                                                             1,122 (5.2%)
     - Mgmt of Companies                                                            32 (.1%)
     - Oth Svcs                                                                1,045 (4.8%)
     - Prof/Sci/Tech/Admin                                                     2,272 (10.5%)
     - Public Administration                                                      850 (3.9%)
     - Retail Trade                                                            2,755 (12.7%)
     - Total Manufacturing                                                     1,338 (6.2%)
     - Transport/Warehse/Utils                                                    592 (2.7%)
     - Wholesale Trade                                                            708 (3.3%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Job Type
     - Blue Collar                                                             2,743 (12.6%)
     - White Collar                                                          15,125 (69.7%)
     - Service & Farm                                                          3,846 (17.7%)

    2013 Estimated Employed                                                 21,714
    Population by Class of Worker
     - Federal Government Workers                                                 500 (2.3%)
     - Local Government Workers                                                1,463 (6.7%)
     - Private For-Profit Workers                                            14,757 (68.0%)
     - Private Non-Profit Workers                                              1,896 (8.7%)
     - Self-Emp Workers                                                        2,508 (11.6%)
     - State Government Workers                                                   543 (2.5%)
     - Unpaid Family Workers                                                        45 (.2%)




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



                                                                              Littleton

    2013 Estimated Hispanic                                                   5,662
    Population by Origin
     - Cuban                                                                        60 (1.1%)
     - Mexican                                                                 3,755 (66.3%)
     - Other                                                                   1,763 (31.1%)
     - Puerto Rican                                                                 84 (1.5%)

    2013 Estimated Hispanic                                                   5,662
    Population by Race
     - White                                                                   3,277 (57.9%)
     - Black                                                                        50 (.9%)
     - Am. Indian or Alaska Native                                                163 (2.9%)
     - Asian                                                                        29 (.5%)
     - Native Haw. Or Pac. Islander                                                   6 (.1%)
     - Other                                                                   1,710 (30.2%)
     - Two or More                                                                426 (7.5%)

    2013 Estimated Asian Population                                              955
    by Category
     - Asian Indian                                                               114 (11.9%)
     - Cambodian                                                                      0
     - Chinese, except Taiwanese                                                  132 (13.8%)
     - Filipino                                                                   162 (17.0%)
     - Hmong                                                                          0
     - Japanese                                                                   134 (14.0%)
     - Korean                                                                     173 (18.1%)
     - Laotian                                                                        0
     - Other or 2 or More                                                           69 (7.2%)
     - Thai                                                                         32 (3.4%)
     - Vietnamese                                                                 138 (14.5%)

    2013 Estimated Families                                                 11,136
     - Married-Couple, own children                                            3,419 (30.7%)
     - Married-Couple, no own children                                         5,438 (48.8%)
     - Male Householder, own children                                             404 (3.6%)
     - Male Householder, no own children                                          309 (2.8%)
     - Female Householder, own children                                           923 (8.3%)
     - Female Householder, no own                                                 642 (5.8%)
     children
    2013 Estimated Families by                                              11,136
    Poverty Status
     - Income At or Above Poverty Level                                      10,343 (92.9%)
     - Income At or Above Poverty Level                                        4,317 (38.8%)
     with Children
     - Income Below Poverty Level                                                 793 (7.1%)
     - Income Below Poverty Level with                                            617 (5.5%)
     Children




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                       Page 8 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
Demographic Report



Location                                                                                                                             Longitude                                    Latitude

1. Littleton                                                                                                                         N/A                                          N/A




Prepared On: 4/30/2013 2:20:56 PM                                                                                                                                                            Page 9 of 9

©2013 - CBRE. This information has been obtained from sources believed reliable. We have not verified it and make no guarantee, warranty or representation about it. Any projections,
opinions, assumptions or estimates used are for example only and do not represent the current or future performance of the property. You and your advisors should conduct a careful,
independent investigation of the property to determine to your satisfaction the suitability of the property for your needs. Source: Claritas
