                                                                                  AGENDA ITEM
REPORT TO MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL



   TO: THE HONORABLE MAYOR
                                                                      DATE: February 5, 2013
        AND CITY COUNCIL

   SUBJECT: Consideration of the Velocity Island Park Project: Approve Mitigated
            Negative Declaration, and Grant the Conditional Use Permitted
            Recommended by the Planning Commission; and Authorize the City
            Manager to Sign the Lease Agreement in Substantially the Format
            Attached

Recommendation for Action

Staff recommends that the City Council consider the following for the Velocity Island Park Project:
1) Approve Mitigated Negative Declaration; 2) Grant the Conditional Use Permit Recommended by
the Planning Commission; and 3) Approve the Lease Agreement and Authorize the City Manager to
Sign the Lease Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached.


Council Goal

Velocity Island Park is a project that has the potential to be a Cable Park "destination location"
attracting wakeboard athletes from the immediate area extending to the entire west coast. This
project falls in line with the City Council's Economic Development Goal to collaborate with local
and regional agencies to market and promote targeted business opportunities in Woodland, Yolo
County and the Sacramento region. Per the Council Goals, this "special project" is a great catalyst
project to enhance collaboration efforts with the Yolo County Visitors Bureau (YCVB) to promote
Woodland as a destination tourism site.


Fiscal Impact

The project's lease agreement will stipulate a monthly rent payment to the City along with the on-
going maintenance of the City's Dubach Detention Basin, which is estimated at $8,000 savings to
the City each year for a period of 20 years commencing on the effective date of the Lease
Agreement. The tenant shall have two (2) five (5) year options to renew for a total of up to a 30 year
term. Rents will range from $200 per month for the first 24 months up to $400 per month (adjusted
annually for CPI, capped at 8%) for the period of 61 months through the end of term. An additional
$300 (adjusted annually for CPI, not to exceed 8%) will be collected for each event deemed to be a
             Consideration of the Velocity Island Park Project: Approve Mitigated Negative
             Declaration, and Grant the Conditional Use Permitted Recommended by the
                                                                                             PAGE: 2
SUBJECT:     Planning Commission; and Authorize the City Manager to Sign the Lease           ITEM:
             Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached



  "Special Event" or tournaments as defined by City Code after 60 months of the term has transpired.
  Collateral Economic Impacts for a major competition have the potential to generate revenues as
  significant at $185,000 per event for the community (including local spending, travel expense, and
  transient occupancy tax (TOT)).


  Report in Brief

  The applicant, Love Ride, Inc., is proposing to construct and operate a cable wakeboard park, known
  as "Velocity Island Park" within the City's Dubach Detention Basin (formerly Dubach Park), located
  at 755 North East Street, west of North East Street and north of Interstate 5 in the City of Woodland.
  The applicant is requesting the approval of a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) and a
  Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to allow the construction and operation of a privately operated
  recreational facility, a cable wakeboard park on the City's 15-acre Dubach Detention Basin. The
  project, if approved by City Council and subject to permits, will be used for the development and
  operation of a cable tow recreational water park facility, which is proposed to be an approximately
  9-acre lake within the Dubach Detention Basin site. The Planning Commission held a public hearing
  and reviewed the proposed project for its associated land use impacts and on a 5 to 0 vote,
  recommended that the City Council consider the project for approval (See Enclosure 1 - Planning
  Commission Staff Report dated September 20, 2012).

  Ultimately, with the presented fiscal impact and potential economic benefit to the community,
  Council is being asked to consider whether a shared use of the Dubach Detention Basin, primarily as
  a stormwater detention basin, and the secondary, everyday use as a privately-operated recreational
  facility, is the highest and best use of this City public facility and whether the risks associated with
  such a use are worth the benefit to the City.


  Background

  Prior to 2008, the property was a dual-use facility for youth / adult softball (Dubach Park) and winter
  stormwater detention. Dubach Park contained three (3) softball fields, batting cages, bleachers,
  equipment shed, snack bar, lights for evening play, play structure for children and a 76-space
  parking lot. Dubach Park was booked every weekend, when the fields were not flooded, for adult
  and youth softball tournaments and weeknights with adult softball leagues. Dubach Park was
  operated by the City, but for a period of two to three years (2000 - 2003), it was leased to Quantum
  Sports to operate as a sports park. On February 15, 2000, the City Council authorized the City
  Manager to execute a lease agreement with Quantum Sports for the lease of Dubach Park to be
  operated as a sports park.

  Once Dubach Park was vacated and relocated to the Community Center Sports Park 3 miles south on
  East Street, it was locked up. In 2009-2010, the Public Works Department removed the parking lot
  and restroom facilities and eventually turned off the PG&E utility services to the site.
             Consideration of the Velocity Island Park Project: Approve Mitigated Negative
             Declaration, and Grant the Conditional Use Permitted Recommended by the
                                                                                             PAGE: 3
SUBJECT:     Planning Commission; and Authorize the City Manager to Sign the Lease           ITEM:
             Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached



  Since the vacancy of Dubach Park as a softball complex in 2008, city staff have been approached by
  various interested users including Bicycle Motorcross (BMX) and Motorcross/Supercross (MX) but
  for many reasons neither use was suitable for the detention facility

  Over the past three years, the site has been the home to squatters and significant infrastructure
  damage due to vandalism.

  Over the past two years, the applicant has made presentations to City Council members, Woodland
  fraternal groups including all Woodland Rotary groups, the Yolo County Visitors Bureau (YCVB)
  Board of Directors, several Yolo County Supervisors, the Woodland Chamber of Commerce Board
  of Directors, the CA State Governor's Office of Economic Development, several status reports from
  staff to Council, and finally the project was presented to the Woodland Planning Commission on
  September 20, 2012. In response, several organizations have expressed support for the project with
  the attached letters of support.


  Discussion

  Based on the terms of the attached Ground Lease Agreement, Mitigated Negative Declaration
  (CEQA document), Planning Commission recommended Conditional Use Permit (CUP) and
  proposed benefits included in the Business Plan for Love Ride, Inc., the following is a list of
  significant benefits to the site and community of Woodland as a result of the proposed cable water
  park:

     ·   Long-term lease of 20 years, plus two (2) five (5) year renewals at a minimum of $38,400 for
         the first 10 years of rental payments received
     ·   Savings of approximately $8,000 annual maintenance of the facility during the rental period
     ·   Potential to produce significant fiscal benefits to the City of Woodland through rental lease
         agreement, TOT hotel, sales tax and other visitor benefits (as highlighted above and in the
         fiscal impact)
     ·   Removal of a public eye sore and preventing possible vandalism, fire hazard and a place for
         transients to stay
     ·   Environmentally "Green" clean and beautifully landscape site
     ·   Potential to provide opportunities to build relations and partner with local schools and water
         sport classes, including the possibility of college credits
     ·   Ideal venue for events and competitions, thereby increasing tourism in the area and exposure
         to the local market
     ·   Potential to be the first and largest full system cable park in the western US
     ·   Environmental benefits for the cable park system-no boats and therefore no fuel emissions,
         conveniently located on SR113 and just off I-5

  If the City Council chooses to not approve the proposed Cable Park use, then the Dubach Detention
  Facility will continue to be the financial responsibility of the Public Works Department, Storm Drain
             Consideration of the Velocity Island Park Project: Approve Mitigated Negative
             Declaration, and Grant the Conditional Use Permitted Recommended by the
                                                                                             PAGE: 4
SUBJECT:     Planning Commission; and Authorize the City Manager to Sign the Lease           ITEM:
             Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached



  Enterprise Fund. The Fund will be responsible for the regular maintenance of the site and will need
  to replace the Well pump (which has been vandalized and currently not operational).

  The project has the potential for the City to incur liability from the use of public property for a
  potential dangerous activity. City staff has worked with the Yolo County Public Agency Risk
  Management Insurance Authority (YCPARMIA) and the City's attorney to limit the City's exposure
  to this liability and YCPARMIA has recommended that the operator of the Cable Park secure a $5
  million insurance policy.

  The tenant will be responsible to remove its personal property and any equipment from the leased
  land and City Property, as well as all structures, footings and building pads, cable and pylon towers,
  installed by the tenant with the exception of any such equipment installed as part of operation or
  maintenance of the Well. Tenant shall leave in place any restroom facilities as long as such facilities
  are flood proofed to the satisfaction of the City. The tenant will be responsible to pay possessory
  interest taxes and personal property taxes and the tenant may be subject to property taxes levied on
  the leased land.

  The tenant will be required to provide a cash security deposit, letter of credit or bond in the amount
  of one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the reasonable estimated cost to dismantle and remove
  from the leased land tenant's improvements.

  Public safety is the City's primary concern with the proposed park. For both participants and
  spectators in and around a body of water 7 to 8 feet deep there is potential for bodily injury or
  drowning from cable wakeboarding on a 9-acre lake. Another concern is accessing the park during
  special events or tournaments with limited on-site parking (76 spaces) and the potential for attendees
  parking off-site in the immediate area. There are no pedestrian facilities (sidewalks) to access the
  park, and which includes the lack of crosswalks to cross East Street.

  The applicant is addressing safety concerns by designing the lake with an approximately 1 to 5 slope
  (1 foot vertical to 5 feet of horizontal) to the shoreline, allowing persons in the water to walk safely
  out of the water and constructing a 9-foot chain-link fence around the entire lake to discourage
  unauthorized or afterhours use of the lake.

  The applicant has indicated that lifeguards are not necessary for this type of activity. Similar to
  other cable wakeboard parks they are relying on the implementation of other safety measures, such
  as:

     ·   Coast-guard approved life jackets and safety helmets must be worn by all participants
     ·   Staff certified in CPR
     ·   Every participant required to watch a mandatory instructional video
     ·   All beginners must take a beginner course
     ·   Security cameras installed and staff certified in crowd control
     ·   For special events private security will be hired
     ·   Park rules posted upon entrance to the park
             Consideration of the Velocity Island Park Project: Approve Mitigated Negative
             Declaration, and Grant the Conditional Use Permitted Recommended by the
                                                                                             PAGE: 5
SUBJECT:     Planning Commission; and Authorize the City Manager to Sign the Lease           ITEM:
             Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached



  The Planning Commission recommended a condition of approval that for special events or
  tournaments, the applicant shall obtain a Special Event Permit. The Special Event Permit must
  address special event parking, shuttle service, traffic control, noise control, sale of alcohol, security
  measures and advance notification to adjacent residences. If on-site parking is not adequate,
  especially for special events or tournaments, the applicant would be required to provide additional
  off-site parking approved by the City and provide a shuttle service to and from the Park.


  Commission/Committee Recommendation

  On September 20, 2012, the Planning Commission recommended that the City Council approved the
  Velocity Island Project, which includes approvals for the Mitigated Negative Declaration, Mitigated
  Monitoring and Report Plan and Conditional Use Permit.


  Conclusion

  Staff recommends the City Council consider the following for the Velocity Island Park Project: 1)
  Approve Mitigated Negative Declaration, and 2) Grant the Conditional Use Permit Recommended
  by the Planning Commission; and 3) Approve the Lease Agreement and Authorize the City Manager
  to Sign the Lease Agreement in Substantially the Format Attached.



                                                        Prepared by:        Paul L Hanson, AICP
                                                                            Senior Planner

                                                                            Wendy Ross
                                                                            Economic Development Manager

                                                        Reviewed by:        Nicholas J. Ponticello
                                                                            Community Development Director


  Paul Navazio
  City Manager

  Attachments:
  1) City of Woodland Ground Lease Agreement for Velocity Island Park
       (inc. Conditional Use Permit and Conditions of Approval)
  2) Mitigated Negative Declaration (hard copy available in the City Clerk's Office or
       can be viewed on-line at: http://web.cityofwoodland.org/gov/meetings.asp
  3) Mitigation, Monitoring and Reporting Program
  4) Letters of Support
VELOCITY ISLAND PARK PROJECT
           Initial Study / Mitigated Negative Declaration




Prepared for                                July 2012
City of Woodland
VELOCITY ISLAND PARK PROJECT
                 Initial Study / Mitigated Negative Declaration




Prepared for                                      July 2012
City of Woodland




2600 Capitol Avenue
Suite 200
Sacramento, CA 95816
916.564.4500
www.esassoc.com
Los Angeles
Oakland
Orlando
Palm Springs
Petaluma
Portland
San Diego
San Francisco
Santa Cruz
Seattle
Tampa
Woodland Hills

120259
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY | ESA helps a variety of
public and private sector clients plan and prepare for climate change and
emerging regulations that limit GHG emissions. ESA is a registered
assessor with the California Climate Action Registry, a Climate Leader,
and founding reporter for the Climate Registry. ESA is also a corporate
member of the U.S. Green Building Council and the Business Council on
Climate Change (BC3). Internally, ESA has adopted a Sustainability Vision
and Policy Statement and a plan to reduce waste and energy within our
operations. This document was produced using recycled paper.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Velocity Island Park Project
Initial Study / Mitigated Negative Declaration

      Environmental Factors Potentially Affected                             9
      Environmental Checklist                                              10
         Aesthetics                                                        10
         Agricultural and Forest Resources                                 12
         Air Quality                                                       14
         Biological Resources                                              18
         Cultural Resources                                                29
         Geology, Soils, and Seismicity                                    32
         Greenhouse Gas Emissions                                          35
         Hazards and Hazardous Materials                                   37
         Hydrology and Water Quality                                       40
         Land Use and Land Use Planning                                    46
         Mineral Resources                                                 47
         Noise                                                             48
         Population and Housing                                            52
         Public Services                                                   53
         Recreation                                                        54
         Transportation and Traffic                                        55
         Utilities and Service Systems                                     64
         Mandatory Findings of Significance                                66
Appendices
A.    Air Quality
B.    Bio Resources
C.    Cultural Resources
D.    Traffic
List of Tables
1. Unmitigated Emissions from Construction                                 15
2. Unmitigated Emissions from Operations                                   16
3. Unmitigated Ghgs from Operations                                        36
4. Typical Construction Noise Levels                                       49
5. Typical Noise Levels from Construction Equipment                        49
6. Signalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions                    57
7. Existing Intersection Levels of Service (LOS)                           57
8. Existing Plus Project Intersection Levels of Service (LOS)              58
9. Cumulative Intersection Levels of Service (LOS)                         59
10. Cumulative Plus Project Intersection Levels of Service (LOS)           59




Velocity Island Park Project                  i                    ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                July 2012
IS/MND




List of Figures

1.    Regional Location                      2
2.    Project Site                           3
3.    Visual Simulation                      5
4.    Visual Simulation                      6
5.    Visual Simulation                      7
6.    Sight Distance Diagram                61




Velocity Island Park Project   ii   ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                 July 2012
ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration

1. Project Title:                                       Velocity Island Park Project

2. Lead Agency Name and Address:                        City of Woodland
                                                        300 First Street
                                                        Woodland, CA 95695

3. Contact Person and Phone Number:                     Paul Hanson, AICP
                                                        Senior Planner
                                                        (530) 661-5820

4. Project Location:                                    Dubach Detention Basin
                                                        755 North East Street
                                                        Woodland, CA 95776

5. Project Sponsor's Name and Address:                  Love Ride, Inc.
                                                        Scott Hartmann
                                                        1240 Alice Street, Suite C
                                                        Woodland, CA 95776

6. General Plan Designation(s):                         Open Space (OS)

7. Zoning Designation(s):                               Open Space (OS)

8. Description of Project:
      Love Ride, Inc. (Love Ride) is proposing to develop a cable wakeboard park within the 15-acre
      Dubach Detention Basin (formerly Dubach Park) in the City of Woodland (APN# 027-340-002 &
      027-270-078). The project site is located at 755 North East Street immediately northwest of
      Interstate 5/Highway 113 (see Figure 1 and Figure 2). The project site, which is owned by
      the City, has been used as a hydrologic detention basin since 2008 when the park was closed.
      Prior to 2008, the park was a dual-use facility for youth baseball and winter stormwater
      detention.

      Cable wakeboarding is a surface water sport, which involves riding a wakeboard over the surface
      of a body of water while being pulled by an overhead cable system. The cables are suspended
      in the air by a series of towers surrounding a small lake; an overhead cable rotates in a (usually)
      counterclockwise motion around the lake. Along the cable are a number of carriers from which
      towropes are attached pulling riders around the lake. See Figures 3, 4, and 5 for visual
      simulations of the proposed project.




Velocity Island Park Project                        1                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                             July 2012
                                                                                                                                   YOLO C O U N T Y




                                                                                SUTTER COUNTY


                                                                                                YOLO COUNTY
                                                                                P R O J E C T L O C AT I O N




                                                                  WOODLAND                                         5




                                                                      11 3




                                                                     D AV I S                                 80
                                         YO
                                              LO
                                                   CO
                                                        UN                                                                       WEST
                                                             TY
                                    SO                                                                                        SACRAMENTO
  0            1                         LAN
                                               O C
                                                   OU
       Miles                                            NTY




                                                                                                               Velocity Island Park Project . 120269
SOURCE: ESRI, 2006; and ESA, 2012
                                                                                                                                   Figure 1
                                                                                                                          Regional Location
                                                     11 3




                                                            Churchill Downs
                                                                            Av e n u e




                                5




          Project Site




   0                   400

            Feet




                                                                   Velocity Island Park Project . 120269
SOURCE: Bing Maps, 2009; ESRI, 2009; and ESA, 2012
                                                                                         Figure 2
                                                                                       Project Site
IS/MND




      The project, known as "Velocity Island Park," would create a 9-acre lake within the Dubach
      Detention Basin site and construct the overhead cable system and park amenities. The cable
      system will consist of the two (2) cable systems. The main cable system includes six truss-
      design stanchions with an electric motor pulling the overhead towline around the lake. The
      second cable line system consists of two separate towlines for straight line pulling. Each system
      includes two truss-design stanchions with an electric motor pulling the overhead towline in a
      straight line. Within the watercourse, the project includes two sandy islands, one for wake
      dampening, and the other for launching participants and spectator area. The project will also
      include floating and stationary docks for launching participants, and a decomposed granitic
      path 4 to 5 feet wide around the perimeter of the lake.

      The facility proposes 76 parking spaces, restrooms (624 sq. ft.), rental building (640 sq. ft.), a
      snack bar/office (1,400 ­ 2,100 sq. ft.), and an observation deck. The project would operate
      from 8 a.m. to ½ hour before dusk every day of the week and expects 10 to 100 persons per
      day with more on special event days.

      The City of Woodland is serving as the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act
      (CEQA). The required project entitlements include a Lease Agreement with the City, a conditional
      use permit (CUP), site plan review, and design review. The Planning Commission will consider
      approval of the proposed Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) and then act on the CUP, site
      plan review, and design review. The Lease Agreement must be approved by the City Council.

9. Surrounding Land Uses and Setting:
      The project site is located in a largely agricultural area in a northern portion of the City of
      Woodland, CA (see Figure 1 and Figure 2). The project site has a City of Woodland General
      Plan and Zoning Designation of Open Space (OS). Uses appropriate to the area are allowed in
      the OS zone with approval of a conditional use permit, site plan review and design review.

      Land uses surrounding the project site consist of various agricultural, commercial and industrial
      land uses. Existing agricultural operations are located immediately to the north and west. North East
      Street/Highway 113 is located immediately to the east with various businesses on the opposite side,
      including Valley Oaks Inn and several warehouses. Interstate 5 is located directly to the south with a
      large trucking operation on the other side.

10. Other public agencies whose approval is required (e.g., permits, financing approval, or
    participation agreement. Indicate whether another agency is a responsible or trustee agency):
      The proposed project would disturb an area over one acre. Therefore, an NPDES Permit from
      the Regional Water Quality Control Board and preparation of a Storm Water Pollution
      Prevention Plan (SWPPP) will be required.




Velocity Island Park Project                          4                                            ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                July 2012
                                                Velocity Island Park Project . 120269
SOURCE: Bill Eral Design, 2012; and ESA, 2012
                                                                     Figure 3
                                                            Visual Simulation
                                                Velocity Island Park Project . 120269
SOURCE: Bill Eral Design, 2012; and ESA, 2012
                                                                     Figure 4
                                                            Visual Simulation
                                                Velocity Island Park Project . 120269
SOURCE: Bill Eral Design, 2012; and ESA, 2012
                                                                     Figure 5
                                                            Visual Simulation
 




    This Page is Intentionally Left Blank 
 
                                                                                                        IS/MND




Environmental Factors Potentially Affected
The proposed project could potentially affect the environmental factor(s) checked below. The
following pages present a more detailed checklist and discussion of each environmental factor.

      Aesthetics                           Agriculture and Forestry Resources    Air Quality
      Biological Resources                 Cultural Resources                    Geology, Soils and Seismicity
      Greenhouse Gas Emissions             Hazards and Hazardous Materials       Hydrology and Water Quality
      Land Use and Land Use Planning       Mineral Resources                     Noise
      Population and Housing               Public Services                       Recreation
      Transportation and Traffic           Utilities and Service Systems         Mandatory Findings of Significance



DETERMINATION: (To be completed by Lead Agency)
On the basis of this initial study:

           I find that the proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment,
           and a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.

           I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
           there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the project have been
           made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
           will be prepared.

           I find that the proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an
           ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required.

           I find that the proposed project MAY have a "potentially significant impact" or "potentially
           significant unless mitigated" impact on the environment, but at least one effect 1) has been
           adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2)
           has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis as described on
           attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must analyze
           only the effects that remain to be addressed.

           I find that although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
           because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier
           EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and (b) have been
           avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION, including
           revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon the proposed project, no further
           environmental documentation is required.



                                                                      July 26, 2012
Signature                                                             Date

Brian J. Grattidge                                                    Paul L. Hanson, Senior Planner
Printed Name                                                          For




Velocity Island Park Project                          9                                             ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                 July 2012
IS/MND




Environmental Checklist
Aesthetics
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation     Impact      No Impact

1.    AESTHETICS -- Would the project:
a)    Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista?

b)    Substantially damage scenic resources, including,
      but not limited to, trees, rock outcroppings, and
      historic buildings within a state scenic highway?
c)    Substantially degrade the existing visual character or
      quality of the site and its surroundings?
d)    Create a new source of substantial light or glare
      which would adversely affect daytime or nighttime
      views in the area?

Discussion
a)           As described above, land uses surrounding the project site consist of various agricultural,
             commercial and industrial land uses. This visual context of the project area consists of existing
             agricultural operations located immediately to the north and west. North East Street/Highway
             113 (Hwy 113) is located immediately to the east with various businesses on the opposite side.
             Interstate 5 (I-5) is located directly to the south with a large trucking operation on the other side.
             There are no scenic vistas within the vicinity of the project site. Because the project site
             is in a developed area and because there are no scenic vistas in the vicinity of the project
             site, the proposed project would not have an adverse effect on a scenic vista; therefore
             there would be no impact.

b)           A review of the current Caltrans Map of Designated State Scenic Highways indicates that
             there are no officially designated state scenic highways in Yolo County. A portion of
             State Route 16 in the northwest part of the County is an eligible state scenic highway,
             however it has not been designated as such at this time (and is not within the same view shed
             as the project site). Furthermore, there are no designated county scenic highways currently
             listed. Therefore, the proposed project would have no impact on scenic resources associated
             with a scenic highway or roadway, and no mitigation is required.

c)           As described above, the project site is located immediately adjacent to existing agricultural
             land uses as well as I-5 and Hwy 113. Existing developed industrial and commercial land
             uses are located on other sides of I-5 and Hwy 113. However, the site itself is currently an
             undeveloped detention basin. The project site is visible to several types of viewing groups
             including workers of the various businesses in the area and motorists traveling along I-5
             and Hwy 113. The viewers are considered to have low to moderate sensitivity, and
             low (vehicle traffic) to moderate (employees) exposure. Development of the proposed
             project would result in a permanent change in local visual conditions (see Figures 4 and 5).



Velocity Island Park Project                                   10                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                             July 2012
                                                                                                        IS/MND




             The project site is surrounded by existing agricultural uses, I-5, and Hwy 113 with
             developed industrial and commercial land uses in the area. The visual character of the
             site would experience moderate change--the detention basin would be re-graded, filled
             with water, and two artificial islands created. A small amount (2,000 to 3,000 sq. ft.) of
             ancillary structures would be built and the parking lot enlarged. Additional landscaping
             would be added. The visual quality would not be substantially degraded. Therefore this
             impact is considered less than significant.

d)           The project site is located adjacent to existing developed land uses where lighting
             currently exists and is characteristic of typical nighttime city views. Automobile traffic
             on I-5 and Hwy 113, as well as existing industrial and commercial land uses in the area
             contribute to existing urbanized nighttime light sources and daytime glare in the vicinity of
             the project. The proposed project would not conflict with existing land uses in the area.
             Although the project would create new sources of light and glare, it would not
             adversely affect day or nighttime views as lighting associated with existing development
             surrounding the project site is prevalent in the project area. There are no adjacent residential
             uses that would be affected (nearest residences are located ½ mile away). Furthermore, all
             proposed outdoor lighting will be required to meet all city standards regulating outdoor
             lighting in order to minimize any impacts resulting from outdoor lighting on adjacent
             properties; therefore this impact is less than significant.

References
California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), 2012. California Scenic Highway Program,
    available at: http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/LandArch/scenic_highways/scenic_hwy.htm; accessed
    May 15, 2012.
City of Woodland, 2002. General Plan Policy Document; December 17, 2002.




Velocity Island Park Project                           11                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                 July 2012
IS/MND




Agricultural and Forest Resources
                                                                                       Less Than
                                                                                       Significant
                                                                       Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                       Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                             Impact      Incorporation     Impact      No Impact

2.     AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST RESOURCES --
       In determining whether impacts to agricultural resources are significant environmental effects, lead agencies may refer
       to the California Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997) prepared by the California Department
       of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing impacts on agriculture and farmland. In determining whether
       impacts to forest resources, including timberland, are significant environmental effects, lead agencies may refer to
       information compiled by the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection regarding the state's inventory of
       forest land, including the Forest and Range Assessment Project and the Forest Legacy Assessment project; and forest
       carbon measurement methodology provided in Forest Protocols adopted by the California Air Resources Board.
       Would the project:
a)     Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland
       of Statewide Importance (Farmland), as shown on
       the maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland Mapping
       and Monitoring Program of the California Resources
       Agency, to non-agricultural use?
b)     Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural use, or a
       Williamson Act contract?
c)     Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning
       of, forest land (as defined in Public Resources Code
       section 12220(g)), timberland (as defined by Public
       Resources Code section 4526), or timberland zoned
       Timberland Production (as defined by Government
       Code section 51104(g))?
d)     Result in the loss of forest land or conversion of
       forest land to non-forest use?
e)     Involve other changes in the existing environment
       which, due to their location or nature, could result in
       conversion of Farmland to non-agricultural use or
       conversion of forest land to non-forest use?

Discussion
a)           According to the Department of Conservation's Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program
             (DOC, 2010), the project site consists of Urban and Built-Up Land. No Prime Farmland,
             Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide Importance would be converted as a result of
             the proposed project; therefore this impact is considered less than significant.

b)           The project site is designated as open space by the City of Woodland General Plan and
             Zoning Ordinance. The project site is not enrolled in a Williamson Act contract. Properties
             to the south and east are zoned and used for non-agricultural (commercial and industrial)
             development, however, properties to the north and west are zoned for agricultural uses.
             Although land used for agricultural purposes is located adjacent to the project site,
             the project would not negatively impact or otherwise interfere with these operations.
             Therefore, this impact is considered less than significant.

c,d)         As previously discussed, because the project site is located on a parcel currently used as a
             detention basin immediately adjacent to I-5 and Hwy 113 with developed industrial and
             commercial in the area, there would be no conflict with existing zoning for, or cause rezoning




Velocity Island Park Project                                      12                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                July 2012
                                                                                                   IS/MND




             of, forestland, timberland, or timberland zoned Timberland Production. No forestland would
             be lost or converted as a result of the proposed project. For these reasons, there would be
             no impact on forestland.

e)           The project is recreational in nature, and of a relatively low intensity. No sensitive
             residential uses would be introduced that could generate complaints or otherwise limit
             agricultural activity. Therefore, no impact related to direct or indirect conversion of
             farmland/forestland would result from the proposed project.

References
DOC, 2010. California Department of Conservation, Farmland Mapping and Monitoring
     Program, 2010.

City of Woodland, 2002. General Plan Policy Document; December 17, 2002.




Velocity Island Park Project                         13                                        ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                            July 2012
IS/MND




Air Quality
                                                                                    Less Than
                                                                                    Significant
                                                                    Potentially        with        Less Than
                                                                    Significant     Mitigation     Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                          Impact      Incorporation      Impact         No Impact

3.    AIR QUALITY --
      Where available, the significance criteria established by the applicable air quality management or air pollution control
      district may be relied upon to make the following determinations.
      Would the project:
a)    Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the
      applicable air quality plan?
b)    Violate any air quality standard or contribute
      substantially to an existing or projected air quality
      violation?
c)    Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of
      any criteria pollutant for which the project region is
      non-attainment under an applicable federal or state
      ambient air quality standard (including releasing
      emissions which exceed quantitative thresholds for
      ozone precursors)?
d)    Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant
      concentrations?
e)    Create objectionable odors affecting a substantial
      number of people?

Discussion
a)           The project site is within the Sacramento Valley Air Basin (SVAB), specifically in the
             City of Woodland, Yolo County, which is currently designated as a nonattainment area
             for state and national ozone standards, state particulate matter (PM10) standard, and
             federal PM2.5 (24-hour) standard. The Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District
             (YSAQMD) Triennial Assessment and Plan Update (YSAQMD, May 2010) is the
             applicable Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) that has been prepared to address
             ozone nonattainment issues.

             If a City's General Plan is consistent with the most recently adopted AQMP, a project
             that is consistent with the General Plan's land use designation is considered consistent
             with applicable air quality plans and policies.

             As stated in Section 10, Land Use and Planning, the proposed project would be consistent
             with the General Plan land use designations and zoning for the project site. In addition,
             the City's General Plan is consistent with the AQMP because data and projections from
             the General Plan are incorporated into the AQMP. Development of the project would not
             interfere with population and vehicle-miles-traveled (VMT) projections used to develop
             the 2010 Triennial Assessment and Plan Update planning projections as it would not
             increase the population of the area and VMT traveled would be negligible. Therefore, the
             proposed project would result in a less-than-significant impact because it would not
             substantially conflict with the region's Air Quality Management Plan.




Velocity Island Park Project                                   14                                                  ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                July 2012
                                                                                                                                IS/MND




b)           The project would result in short-term and long-term emissions of criteria air pollutants
             from construction and operations, respectively. These activities are described below.

             Construction
             The SVAB experiences occasional violations of ozone and particulate matter (PM10 and
             PM2.5) standards. Thus, during the construction phase of any given project basin wide
             violations can occur. Construction would involve use of equipment and materials that
             would emit ozone precursor emissions (i.e., reactive organic gases or ROG, and nitrogen
             oxides, or NOx). Construction activities would also result in the emission of other criteria
             pollutants from equipment exhaust, construction-related vehicular activity, and construction
             worker automobile trips. Emission levels for these activities would vary depending on the
             number and type of equipment, duration of use, operation schedules, and the number of
             construction workers. Criteria pollutant emissions of ROG and NOx from these emission
             sources would incrementally add to the regional atmospheric loading of ozone precursors
             during project development. Emissions were estimated using CalEEMod and are depicted
             below in Table 1. These emissions are also compared to the YSAQMD thresholds described
             in the Handbook for Assessing and Mitigating Air Quality Impacts (YSAQMD, 2007).
             Construction activities are assumed to occur over a six month period. Additional assumptions
             and information are included in Appendix A.

                                                  TABLE 1
                                UNMITIGATED EMISSIONS FROM CONSTRUCTION a, b

                                                                    c            c        d               d             d
                Project Phase                                ROG          NOx          CO         PM10          PM2.5

                Year 2012                                     0.3          2.3        49.9         32.0          14.2
                Year 2013                                     0.5          0.4        25.2          3.2          3.0
                YSAQMD Thresholds of Significance             10           10          NA           80           NA
                Significant (Yes or No)?                      No           No          No           No           No

                a. Project construction emissions estimates were made using CalEEMod. See Appendix A for more
                   information.
                b. Values in bold are in excess of the applicable significance threshold. NA = Not Available.
                c. Tons Per Year
                d. Pounds Per Day



             Although the project would not generate emissions during construction that would exceed
             the YSAQMD thresholds, the YSAQMD recommends that projects implement a set of
             best management practices during construction regardless of the significance determination
             to reduce dust emissions and avoid localized health impacts. Implementation Mitigation
             Measures AIR-1 would reduce impacts to a less-than-significant level.

             Operations
             In regards to operations, the proposed project would increase the use at the project site by
             adding recreational facilities. The proposed project would generate approximately 100
             daily vehicle trips (50 inbound and 50 outbound), and approximately 10 peak-hour trips
             (5 inbound and 5 outbound) during both the a.m. and p.m. peak hours. Operational
             emissions, including mobile, energy, and area (i.e., architectural coating, consumer




Velocity Island Park Project                                        15                                                      ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                         July 2012
IS/MND




             products, landscape equipment) sources were estimated using CalEEMod and are depicted
             below in Table 2. Additional assumptions and information are included in Appendix A.

             As shown in Table 2, long-term operational emissions of the project would be less than
             significant.
                                                     TABLE 2
                                    UNMITIGATED EMISSIONS FROM OPERATIONS a, b


                                                                      c            c        d               d            d
                Project Phase                                  ROG          NOx          CO         PM10         PM2.5

                Project Buildout                                0.3          0.3         5.5          0.9         0.09
                YSAQMD Thresholds of Significance                10          10          NA            80          NA
                Significant (Yes or No)?                        No           No          No           No           No

                a.   Project operational emissions estimates were made CalEEMod See Appendix A for more information.
                b.   Values in bold are in excess of the applicable significance threshold. NA = Not Available.
                c.   Tons Per Year
                d.   Pounds Per Day


             While CO emissions do not have a single daily or yearly threshold, the potential impact
             of CO concentrations is analyzed in item (d), below.
c)           According to the YSAQMD, no single project is sufficient in size to, by itself, result in
             nonattainment of ambient air quality standards. Instead, a project's individual emissions
             contribute to existing cumulatively significant adverse air quality impacts. If a project
             exceeds the identified significance thresholds, its emissions would be cumulatively
             considerable, resulting in significant adverse air quality impacts to the region's existing
             air quality conditions. Alternatively, if a project does not exceed the identified significance
             thresholds, then the project would not be considered cumulatively considerable and would
             result in less-than-significant air quality impacts. As discussed for criteria "b" above, the
             project would result in less than significant construction emissions with mitigation
             incorporation, and less than significant operational emissions.

                     Mitigation Measure: Implement Mitigation Measures AIR-1.

d)           Some receptors are considered more sensitive than others to air pollutants. Reasons for
             greater sensitivity include pre-existing health problems, proximity to emissions source, or
             duration of exposure to air pollutants. Schools, hospitals and convalescent homes are
             considered to be relatively sensitive to poor air quality because children, elderly people
             and the infirm are more susceptible to respiratory infections and other air quality-related
             health problems than the general public. Residential areas are also sensitive to poor air
             quality because people usually stay home for extended periods of time. The project would
             not be constructed adjacent to existing sensitive uses. Thus, toxic air contaminants (such
             as diesel particulate matter) from construction activities are not anticipated to result in the
             exposure of sensitive receptors to levels that exceed applicable standards.

             The long-term operation of the project would not result in any sources of toxic air emissions.
             However, since the project would be located adjacent to I-5 and Highway 113, visitors
             would potentially be exposed to toxic air contaminants and criteria air pollutants from the



Velocity Island Park Project                                          16                                                     ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                          July 2012
                                                                                                              IS/MND




             highways. However, this exposure would be for the short-term duration of park visitation.
             In addition, The YSAQMD's Handbook for Assessing and Mitigating Air Quality Impacts
             includes screening criteria for carbon monoxide hotspots. If either of the following criteria
             is true of any intersection affected by the project traffic, then the project can be said to
             have the potential to create a violation of the CO standard:
                           A traffic study for the project indicates that the peak-hour Level of Service (LOS)
                           on one or more streets or at one or more intersections in the project vicinity will
                           be reduced to an unacceptable LOS (typically LOS E or F); or
                           A traffic study indicates that the project will substantially worsen an already existing
                           peak-hour LOS F on one or more streets or at one or more intersections in the
                           project vicinity. "Substantially worsen" includes situations where delay would
                           increase by 10 seconds or more when project-generated traffic is included."
             Since the project would result in minimal traffic (10 peak-hour trips) during both the a.m.
             and p.m. peak hours, these criteria would not be met.

             In summary, the project would not expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant
             concentrations during construction or operations and this impact would be less than
             significant.

e)           As a general matter, the types of land use development that pose potential odor problems
             include wastewater treatment plants, refineries, landfills, composting facilities and transfer
             stations. No such uses would occupy the project site. Therefore the project would not
             create objectionable odors that would affect a substantial number of people and this impact
             would be less than significant.

Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measure AIR-1: During active construction, the City shall require construction
contractors to implement applicable YSAMD construction dust control measures, including:

      1. Water all active construction sites at least twice daily. Frequency should be based on the
         type of operation, soil, and wind exposure.
      2. Haul trucks shall maintain at least 2 feet of freeboard; or cover all trucks hauling dirt,
         sand, or loose materials.
      3. Plant vegetative ground cover in disturbed areas as soon as possible.
      4. Cover inactive storage piles.
      5. Sweep access road if visible soil material is carried out from the construction site.
References
Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District (YSAQMD), 2007. Handbook for Assessing and
     Mitigating Air Quality Impacts, adopted July 11, 2007.
Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District (YSAQMD), 2010. Triennial Assessment and
     Plan Update, adopted May 2010.




Velocity Island Park Project                                 17                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                       July 2012
IS/MND




Biological Resources
                                                                                          Less Than
                                                                                          Significant
                                                                          Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                          Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                                Impact      Incorporation     Impact      No Impact

4.    BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a)    Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or
      through habitat modifications, on any species identified
      as a candidate, sensitive, or special-status species in
      local or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by
      the California Department of Fish and Game or U.S.
      Fish and Wildlife Service?
b)    Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian
      habitat or other sensitive natural community identified
      in local or regional plans, policies, regulations or by
      the California Department of Fish and Game or U.S.
      Fish and Wildlife Service?
c)    Have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected
      wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the Clean Water
      Act (including, but not limited to, marsh, vernal pool,
      coastal, etc.) through direct removal, filling, hydrological
      interruption, or other means?
d)    Interfere substantially with the movement of any native
      resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with
      established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors,
      or impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites?
e)    Conflict with any local policies or ordinances
      protecting biological resources, such as a tree
      preservation policy or ordinance?
f)    Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat
      Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation
      Plan, or other approved local, regional, or state
      habitat conservation plan?


Data Sources / Methodology
Biological resources within the project site were identified by ESA biologist Chariss Tweedy
through a field reconnaissance conducted on May 9, 2012, and by a field visit by ESA biologist
Bob L. Jones on July 6, 2012. Prior to the reconnaissance survey, a review of pertinent literature
and database queries were conducted for the project site and surrounding area. The reconnaissance
survey consisted of a pedestrian survey of the project site in its entirety. The primary sources of
data referenced for this study include the following:

             Federal Endangered and Threatened Species that may be Affected by Projects in the
             Woodland, California USGS 7.5-minute Topographic Quadrangle (USFWS, 2012);
             California Natural Diversity Database (CNDDB), Rarefind 4 computer program (CDFG,
             2012);
             California Native Plant Society's Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants (v8-01a)
             (CNPS, 2012).




Velocity Island Park Project                                         18                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                   July 2012
                                                                                                    IS/MND




A list of special-status species with potential to occur on or near the project site was compiled
from these sources and from information collected during the field reconnaissance. Appendix B
includes the special-status species lists for the project region.

Regional Ecology
The project area is located in the central portion of the southern Sacramento Valley. Historically,
this region supported extensive marshes, riparian woodlands intermixed with oak woodland, vernal
pools, and grasslands. Intensive agricultural and urban development has resulted in substantial
changes and conversions of these habitats. Present terrestrial habitats are characterized by agricultural
lands, annual grassland, and riparian woodland/riparian scrub. There are several major water
features that support emergent wetland vegetation. Because most native habitats have been altered
by changes in land use, native plant communities are typically limited to areas along water courses
and drainages, within designated reserves, or on untilled pasture lands.

Regionally, the study area is located in the Sacramento Valley which is located in the Great Valley
Section. Typical elevations within this ecological subsection range from 20-feet above sea level up
to 200-feet. Climate is typically hot and sub-humid. Mean annual precipitation is approximately 15
to 18-inches and mean annual temperature ranges from 59 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit. (Miles and
Goudey, 1997)

Site Description
The project site is located in the City of Woodland (City) on Highway 113 North (N. East Street)
immediately north of Interstate 5 (I-5). The project site is bounded by industrial uses to the south and
east; and agriculture (tomatoes) to the north, west, and north east. The majority of the site is
characterized as ruderal, occupied by weedy vegetation which was tall and thick in patches and sparse
in other areas. During the time of the reconnaissance-level survey in May 2012, the majority of the
interior of the project site was highly disturbed and appeared to be disked on a routine basis. Some
planted trees are present within the interior such as redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), Western
sycamore (Platanus racemosa), and Bradford pear. There are large trees present such as valley
oak (Quercus lobata), Fremont cottonwood (Populus fremontii ssp. fremontii), and Goodding's
black willow (Salix gooddingii) along the perimeter of the project site.
Plant Communities and Wildlife Habitats
Biological communities are assemblages of plant species that commonly occur together in the
same area. Wildlife habitats generally correspond to plant communities. The biological communities
described in this section generally follow the classification systems provided in the California
Department of Fish and Game's (DFG) A Guide to Wildlife Habitats of California (Mayer and
Laudenslayer, 1988), which is integrated with the California Wildlife Habitat Relationships
(CWHR) System. Wildlife habitats generally correspond to plant communities. Plant communities
are assemblages of plant species that occur together in the same area and are repeated across
landscapes. Both species composition and relative abundance define them. Plant communities
within the study area were identified using field reconnaissance and aerial photography. The CWHR
habitat classification scheme has been developed to support the CWHR System, a wildlife information
system and predictive model for California's regularly occurring birds, mammals, reptiles and



Velocity Island Park Project                       19                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                             July 2012
IS/MND




amphibians. The plant communities described below generally correlate with wildlife habitat
types and are those found within the project site.

Disturbed / Ruderal
Disturbed/ruderal habitats are subjected to ongoing or past disturbances (e.g., vehicle activities,
mowing). Disturbed/ruderal is the only habitat present within the project site and it supports a
diverse weedy flora, primarily composed of non-native invasive species. Vegetation observed
during the May 2012 site visit includes weedy grasses such as wild oats (Avena sp.), ryegrass
(Lolium multiflorum), blessed milkthistle (Silybum marianum), yellow starthistle (Centaurea
solstitialis), soft brome (Bromus hordeaceus), and ripgut brome (B. diandrus). The site is
maintained by the City of Woodland and is periodically disked during the growing season to
reduce fire danger. The site was not occupied by wetlands, ditches, or other watercourses.

Regulatory Setting
Federal
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) administers the Federal Endangered Species Act
(FESA) (16 United States Code [USC] 153 et seq.), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 USC 703­
711), and the Bald Eagle Protection Act (16 USC 668), among other programs discussed below.

Federal Endangered Species Act ­ Under the Federal Endangered Species Act (FESA) the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce have joint authority to list a species as threatened
or endangered (16 USC 1533[c]). Two federal agencies oversee FESA: the USFWS has jurisdiction
over plants, wildlife, and resident fish, and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has
jurisdiction over anadromous and marine fish as well as mammals. Section 7 of FESA mandates
that all federal agencies consult with the USFWS and NMFS to ensure that federal agency actions
do not jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species or destroy or adversely modify
critical habitat for listed species. FESA prohibits the "take"1 of any fish or wildlife species listed
as threatened or endangered, including the destruction of habitat that could hinder species recovery.

Section 10 of FESA requires the issuance of an incidental take permit before any public or private
action may be taken that could harm, harass, injure, kill, capture, collect, or otherwise hurt any
individual of an endangered or threatened species. The permit requires preparation and implementation
of a habitat conservation plan that provides specific measures to offset project impacts on
endangered or threatened species.

The USFWS also publishes a list of candidate species. Species on this list receive "special
attention" from federal agencies during environmental review, although they are not protected
otherwise under the FESA. The candidate species are those for which the USFWS has sufficient
biological information to support a proposal to list as endangered or threatened. Project impacts
on such species would be considered significant in this Initial Study. Species of Concern is an


1    "Take" is defined as harassing, harming, pursuing, hunting, shooting, wounding, killing, trapping, capturing,
     collecting, or attempting to engage in any such conduct.




Velocity Island Park Project                               20                                                  ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                            July 2012
                                                                                                     IS/MND




informal term, not defined in the federal Endangered Species Act. The Sacramento Office of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service no longer maintains a Federal Species of Concern list.

Pursuant to the requirements of FESA, an agency reviewing a proposed project within its jurisdiction
must determine whether any federally listed threatened or endangered species could be present in
the project area and whether the project action would have a potentially significant impact on such
species. In addition, the agency is required to determine whether the project action is likely to
jeopardize the continued existence of any species proposed to be listed under FESA or result in
the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat proposed to be designated for such
species (16 USC 1536[3], [4]).

Similarly, the permitting responsibilities of the USACE include consultation with the USFWS
and NMFS when federally listed species (i.e., listed under the FESA) are at risk. At both the state
and federal levels, the process requires that a Biological Assessment be prepared to determine the
effects on listed species. Under both USFWS and California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG)
policy, species of concern are not subject to the same consultation requirements as listed endangered,
rare, or threatened species, but the agencies encourage informal consultation for species of concern
that may become officially listed before completion of the CEQA process.

Migratory Bird Treaty Act ­ The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 USC 703, Supp. I, 1989) prohibits
the killing, possessing, or trading of migratory birds, bird parts, eggs, and nests, except in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.

State
California Department of Fish and Game
CDFG administers a number of laws and programs, discussed below, designed to protect fish and
wildlife resources.

California Endangered Species Act ­ The California Endangered Species Act of 1984 (CESA) ­
Fish and Game Code Section 2050 et seq ­ regulates the listing and "take" of endangered and
threatened species. A "take" of such a species may be permitted by CDFG through issuance of
permits pursuant to Fish and Game Code section 2081, except for designed "fully protected"
species (see subsection below).

Fully Protected Species ­ Prior to enactment of CESA, the designation of "Fully Protected" was
used by CDFG to identify species that had been given special protection by the California Legislature
by a series of statutes in the California Fish and Game Code. (See §§ 3503.5, 3505, 3511, 3513,
4700, 4800, 5050, 5515). Many fully protected species have also been listed as threatened or
endangered species under the more recent endangered species laws and regulations; however, the
original statutes have not been repealed, and the legal protection they give the species identified
within them remains in place. Fully Protected species may not be taken or possessed at any time;
and no licenses or permits may be issued for their take except for collecting these species for necessary
scientific research and relocation of the bird species for the protection of livestock. Because
endangered or threatened species can be "taken" for development purposes with the issuance of a




Velocity Island Park Project                       21                                            ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                              July 2012
IS/MND




permit by CDFG, "fully protected species" actually enjoy a greater level of legal protection than
"listed" species.

Protection of Nesting Birds ­ Section 3503.5 of the California Fish and Game Code states that it
is "unlawful to take, possess, or destroy the nests or eggs of any such bird of prey (i.e., species in
the orders Falconiformes and Strigiformes) except otherwise provided by this code or any other
regulation adopted hereto." Active nests of all other birds (except English sparrow (Passer domesticus)
and European starling (Sturnus vulgaris)) are similarly protected under Section 3503 of the
California Fish and Game Code, as well as birds designated in the International Migratory Bird
Treaty Action under Section 3513 of the California Fish and Game Code. Disturbance that causes
nest abandonment and/or loss of reproductive failure is considered a take by the CDFG. This
statute does not provide for the issuance of an incidental take permit.

Species of Special Concern ­ CDFG also designates California Species of Special Concern (CSC)
which are species of limited distribution, declining populations, diminishing habitat, or unusual
scientific, recreational, or educational value. These species do not have the same legal protection
as listed species or fully protected species but may be added to official lists in the future. The
SSC list is intended by CDFG as a management tool for consideration in future land use decisions.
Under CDFG policy, CSC are not subject to the same consultation requirements as listed endangered,
rare, or threatened species, but the agency encourages informal consultation for Species of
Special Concern that may become officially listed before completion of the CEQA process.

CEQA Guidelines Section 15380
Although threatened and endangered species are protected by specific federal and state statutes,
CEQA Guidelines section 15380(b) provides that a species not listed on the federal or state list of
protected species may be considered rare or endangered if the species can be shown to meet certain
specified criteria. These criteria have been modeled after the definition in the FESA and the section
of the California Fish and Game Code dealing with rare or endangered plants or animals. This
section was included in the guidelines primarily to deal with situations in which a public agency
is reviewing a project that may have a significant effect on, for example, a "candidate species"
that has not yet been listed by either the USFWS or CDFG. Thus, CEQA provides an agency with
the ability to protect a species from a project's potential impacts until the respective government
agencies have an opportunity to designate the species as protected, if warranted. Examples of
species that may be considered under CEQA Section 15380 include some vascular plants.

Local
City of Woodland General Plan
The 2002 City of Woodland General Plan (City of Woodland, 2002) includes conservation and
enhancement goals and policies that strive to balance the need for growth with the need for
protection of the City's environmental resources, which contribute to the City's economy and are
important elements of the quality of life of City's residents. These resources include water
resources, fish and wildlife habitat, vegetation, open space, and air quality. The following
conservation policies taken from the General Plan are designed to protect, restore, and enhance




Velocity Island Park Project                      22                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                            July 2012
                                                                                                          IS/MND




habitats that support fish and wildlife and plant species so as to maintain populations at viable
levels. The following goals and policies are relevant to the proposed project:


      Goal 7.B: To protect, restore, and enhance habitats that support fish and wildlife species so
      as to maintain populations at viable levels.

             Policy 7.B.1: The City shall participate in the countywide Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural
             Community Conservation Plan (HCP/NCCP) and A Joint Powers Agency to mitigate the
             impacts of growth projected under the General Plan on wildlife habitats in the Woodland
             Area.

             Policy 7.B.2: Until the countywide Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural Community
             Conservation Plan is adopted, prior to approval of discretionary development permits
             involving parcels within a significant ecological resource area, the City shall require, as
             part of the environmental review process, a biotic resources evaluation of the site by a
             wildlife biologist. The evaluation shall be based upon field reconnaissance performed at
             the appropriate time of year to determine the presence or absence of federally- or state-
             listed rare, threatened, or endangered species of plants or animals. Such evaluation will
             consider the potential for significant impact on these resources, and will identify feasible
             measures to mitigate such impacts or indicate why mitigation is not feasible. In
             approving any such discretionary development permit, the City shall determine the
             feasibility of the identified mitigation measures.
             Significant ecological resource areas shall, at a minimum, include the following:
                    a. Any habitat for federally- or state-listed rare, threatened or endangered animals
                       or plants.
                    b. Large areas of non-fragmented natural habitat.
                    c. Identifiable wildlife movement zones, including but not limited to, non-
                       fragmented stream environment zones, avian and mammalian migratory routes,
                       and known concentration areas of waterfowl within the Pacific Flyway.

Goal 7.C: To preserve and protect the valuable vegetation resources of the Woodland area.
             Policy 7.C.2: The City shall encourage landowners and developers to preserve natural
             vegetation in visually-sensitive areas and along important transportation corridors.

             Policy 7.C.3: The City shall require developers to use native and compatible non-native
             species, especially drought-resistant species, to the extent possible in fulfilling landscaping
             requirements imposed as conditions of permits or for project mitigation,

             Policy 7.C.9: The City shall encourage the planting of native trees, shrubs, and grasslands in
             order to preserve the visual integrity of the landscape, provide habitat conditions suitable for
             native wildlife, and ensure that a maximum number and variety of well-adapted plants are
             maintained.




Velocity Island Park Project                            23                                            ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                   July 2012
IS/MND




City of Woodland Tree Ordinance
The City of Woodland Municipal Code (City of Woodland, 2008) includes a section on trees.
Chapter 20A governs the planting, removal, and preservation of street trees, heritage trees,
specimen trees, and landmark trees on public property and private property within the city. The
following Sections are applicable to the proposed project:

Section 20A-1-90. Development Projects - Tree Plan.
An application for a development project shall be accompanied by a tree plan containing the
following information:

      1) Contour map showing the location, size, species and condition of all existing trees which
         are located upon the property proposed for development;
      2) Identification of those trees which the applicant proposes to preserve and those which are
         proposed to be removed and the reason for such removal;
      3) A program for the preservation of street trees, heritage, specimen, landmark trees and trees
         with aesthetic value (trees with a nine-inch diameter or larger, measured fifty-four inches
         above the ground, in healthy condition) during and after completion of the development
         project, as required in the City standard specifications, engineering design standards, Section
         8, grading and erosion control;
      4) A program for the replacement of any trees proposed to be removed, as required by
         Section 20A-1-100
      5) Any change in the trees to be saved and/or removed as designated on the approved
         development plan shall only be permitted upon the written approval of the director. (Ord.
         No. 1230, §4 (part); Ord. No. 1300 §4 (part).)

Section 20A-1-100. Tree Replacement Program.
A person owning or controlling a development project shall be required to replace street trees
other than heritage, specimen or landmark trees, approved for removal as part of the approval of
the project in accordance with subsection (1). Each heritage, specimen and/or landmark tree
approved for removal shall be replaced in accordance with subsection (2).

      1) For each six inches or fraction thereof of the diameter of a tree which was approved for
         removal, two trees of an approved species, each of a minimum fifteen-gallon container
         size shall be planted on the project site. However, an increased number of smaller size
         trees may be planted if approved by the director, or a fewer number of such trees of a
         larger size if approved by the director.

      2) For each six inches or fraction thereof of the diameter of a tree which was approved for
         removal, four trees of an approved species, each of a minimum fifteen-gallon container
         size, shall be planted on the project site. However, an increased number of smaller size
         trees may be planted if approved by the director, or a fewer number of such trees of a
         larger size if approved by the director.

      3) If the development site is inadequate in size to accommodate the replacement trees, the
         trees shall be planted on public property with the approval of the director. Upon the
         request of the developer and the approval of the director, the city may accept an in-lieu



Velocity Island Park Project                        24                                         ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                            July 2012
                                                                                                    IS/MND




             payment of the current retail price per fifteen-gallon replacement tree on condition that
             all such payments shall be used for tree-related educational projects and/or planting
             programs of the city.

      4) All trees planted under the provisions of this section shall be guaranteed for a period of
         one year from the date of final acceptance of the development project by the city. Any
         tree which does not survive for one year from that date shall be replaced by the developer
         and the replacement tree shall be guaranteed for one year. (Ord. No. 1230, § 4 (part);
         Ord. No. 1300 § 4 (part).)

Yolo County Joint Powers Agency
The Yolo County Natural Communities Conservation Plan/Habitat Conservation Plan (NCCP/HCP)
Joint Powers Agency (JPA) was formed in August 2002 to serve two purposes. The first was for
the purpose of acquiring Swainson's hawk habitat conservation easements. The second purpose
was to serve as the lead agency for the preparation of a county-wide NCCP/HCP, which is now
known as the Yolo Natural Heritage Program. The JPA also manages the Swainson's Hawk Interim
Mitigation Fee Program. This program utilizes mitigation fees to acquire conservation easements
to protect Swainson's hawk habitat (Yolo County, 2012).

The Yolo County NCCP/HCP is currently undergoing development and review by participating
parties, including CDFG, USFW, and Yolo County. The finalized Plan will describe biological
conservation and other measures that local agencies will perform, and will include a series of
studies and surveys outlined by the Report of Independent Science Advisors. This report stipulates
that the NCCP/HCP should include, for Yolo County, the biological goals, geographic area, plan
duration, species to be addressed, and actions to be permitted. Biological goals will include specific
goals that address: (1) sustaining and restoring species and habitats that are necessary to maintain
continued viability of biological communities impacted by human changes to the landscape, and
(2) conserving, restoring, protecting, and enhancing natural communities.

Special-Status Species
Definitions of Special-Status Species
Special-status species are those plants and animals that, because of their recognized rarity or
vulnerability to various causes of habitat loss or population decline, are recognized by federal, state,
or other agencies. Some of these species receive specific protection that is defined by federal
or state endangered species legislation. Others have been designated as "sensitive" on the basis
of adopted policies and expertise of state resource agencies or organizations with acknowledged
expertise, or policies adopted by local governmental agencies such as counties, cities, and special
districts to meet local conservation objectives. These species are referred to collectively as "special
status species" in this study following a convention that has developed in practice but has no official
sanction. For the purposes of this assessment, the term "special-status" includes the following:

             Federally listed or proposed under the Federal Endangered Species Act (50 Code of
             Federal Regulations [CFR] 17.11-17.12). They are the only species that are specifically
             regulated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on tribal lands.
             Candidates for listing under the Federal Endangered Species Act (61 FR 7596-7613)




Velocity Island Park Project                         25                                         ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                             July 2012
IS/MND




             State listed or proposed under the California Endangered Species Act (14 California Code
             of Regulations [CCR] 670.5)
             Species listed by the by CDFG as a species of special concern
             Fully protected animals, as defined by the State of California (CDFG Code Section 3511,
             4700, and 5050)
             Species that meet the definition of threatened, endangered, or rare under the California
             Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (CEQA Guidelines Section 15380)
             Plants listed as rare or endangered under the California Native Plant Protection Act
             (CDFG Code Section 1900 et seq.)

Potentially Affected Listed and Proposed Species
A list of special-status plant and animal species that have the potential to occur within the vicinity
of the study area was compiled based on data in the California Natural Diversity Database (CNDDB)
(CDFG, 2012), CNPS Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants (CNPS, 2012), and the USFWS
List of Federal Endangered and Threatened Species that may be Affected by Projects in the Woodland
Quad (USFWS, 2012). Conclusions regarding habitat suitability and species occurrence are based
on a reconnaissance-level area assessment conducted by ESA biologists, as well as existing literature
and databases described previously.

Appendix B lists special-status plants and animals with the potential to occur within the project
site. The "Potential for Occurrence" category is defined as follows:

             Unlikely: The project site and/or immediate area do not support suitable habitat for a
             particular species. Project site is outside of the species known range.
             Low Potential: Project site and/or immediate area only provide limited habitat for a
             particular species. In addition, the known range for a particular species may be outside of
             the immediate project area.
             Medium Potential: The project site and/or immediate area provide suitable habitat for a
             particular species, and habitat for the species may be impacted.
             High Potential: The project site and/or immediate area provide ideal habitat conditions
             for a particular species and/or known populations occur in immediate area and within the
             potential area of impact.

Discussion
a)           The following sub-sections provide a discussion of potential effects to special-status plant
             and animal species that may result from implementation of the project.

             Special-Status Plants
             The project site does not provide habitat for any special-status plant species. No special-
             status plant species are likely to occur within the site itself due to the high degree of
             disturbance. The majority of the site is dominated by ruderal vegetation. Therefore,
             implementation of the project will have no impact on special-status plants.




Velocity Island Park Project                          26                                         ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                              July 2012
                                                                                                        IS/MND




             Special-Status Wildlife
             Potential nesting habitat for Swainson's hawk and other raptors occurs within and along
             the immediate perimeter of the project site and on adjacent parcels within 0.25-mile of the
             project site. There are more than 30 CNDDB Swainson's hawk records within 5-miles of
             the project site (CDFG, 2012). Project construction may impact nesting raptors during the
             breeding season. This is a potentially significant effect. Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would
             reduce potential impacts on nesting raptors to a less-than-significant level. Because the
             site is routinely disked and maintained during the growing season, the property is not
             considered appropriate foraging habitat for Swainson's hawk.

b)           There is no riparian habitat or other sensitive natural community located within or adjacent
             to the project site. Therefore, there is no impact on riparian habitat or other sensitive
             natural communities.

c)           There are no wetlands or waters of the U.S. within or adjacent to the Project site.
             Therefore, there is no impact on federally protected wetlands.

d)           The proposed project would not substantially interfere with the movement of any native
             resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with established native resident or migratory
             wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native wildlife nursery sites. The project site is not
             located within an established native resident or migratory wildlife corridor or wildlife nursery
             site. Therefore, there is no impact to migratory wildlife corridors or nursery sites.

e)           Per the engineering drawings, construction of the proposed project would involve the removal
             of several trees. This is a potentially significant effect. Mitigation Measure BIO-2 and
             BIO-3 would reduce potential impacts on trees to a less-than-significant level.

f)           The General Plan conservation and enhancement goals are consistent with the draft
             NCCP/HCP and will be carried out through implementation of Mitigation Measure BIO-1.
             As the NCCP/HCP is still under development and has not yet been finalized or adopted, the
             proposed project would not conflict with conservation or other policies outlined therein.
             Furthermore, the project would not conflict with other conservation-based policies contained
             in adopted local plans. Therefore, no conflict would occur and there would be no impact.

Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measure BIO-1: Potential Swainson's hawk or other raptor nests shall be protected
as follows:
      a) The applicant shall make every effort to conduct any tree and shrub removal activities
         that are required for project construction outside of the migratory bird and raptor breeding
         season (February 15 through August 31). In addition, all trees slated for removal during
         the nesting season shall be surveyed by a qualified biologist no more than 48-hours
         before removal to ensure that no nesting birds are occupying the tree.
      b) If construction-related activities are to occur prior to tree removal during the nesting bird
         season (February 15 through August 31), a qualified biologist shall conduct a preconstruction
         survey of all potential nesting habitats within 15 days prior to the start of activities (grubbing,
         dirt-moving, mobilization, or other construction-related activities) and within 500 feet of



Velocity Island Park Project                           27                                           ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                 July 2012
IS/MND




             construction activities. If ground-disturbing activities are delayed or suspended for more
             than 30 days after the pre-construction survey, the site shall be resurveyed. The results of
             these surveys shall be documented in a technical memorandum that shall be submitted to
             the California Department of Fish and Game (DFG) (if nesting birds are documented) and
             the City of Woodland. A qualified biologist is one that has been approved by DFG as having
             the appropriate education background and experience to conduct nesting bird surveys.
      c) If an active nest is found during the preconstruction survey, a no-work buffer of 500 feet
         will be established unless otherwise approved by the DFG. The qualified biologist will
         coordinate with DFG to determine the appropriate nest avoidance, monitoring, and protective
         measures appropriate for the species and site conditions. In addition to establishment of a
         no-work buffer, these measures may include daily or spot-check monitoring of the nesting
         activity as deemed appropriate by DFG.
      d) If the preconstruction survey indicates that nests are inactive or potential habitat is unoccupied
         during the construction period, no further mitigation is required. Trees and shrubs that
         have been determined to be unoccupied by birds or that are located more than 500 feet
         from active nests may be removed (500 feet is the distance regularly recommended by
         DFG to prevent impacts to active avian nests).

Mitigation Measure BIO-2: Loss of tree resources on the project site will be mitigated as
follows:
      a) The City of Woodland (City) shall ensure that the project applicant will comply with the
         City of Woodland's Municipal Code, Chapter 20A. Prior to construction, the applicant
         shall have a Certified Arborist conduct a tree survey of the trees located within the project
         boundaries and submit a Tree Plan to the Community Development Department.
      b) Removed trees will be replaced at a ratio of 2:1. Replacement trees shall be planted on
         the project site. All trees planted shall be purchased from a locally adapted genetic stock
         obtained within 50 miles and 1,000 feet in elevation of a project site. If the site does not
         have adequate room for replanting trees, the City may require payment to a tree replacement
         fund. Replacement trees shall be guaranteed for a period of one year from the date of
         final acceptance of the development project by the City. Any tree which does not survive
         for one year from that date shall be replaced by the developer and the replacement tree
         shall be guaranteed for one year.

Mitigation Measure BIO-3: Tree resources on the project site will be protected as follows:
             Sensitive tree resources adjacent to construction activities may require additional protection.
             Buffer zones should include a minimum one-foot-wide buffer zone outside the drip line.
             The locations of these resources would be clearly identified on the construction drawings
             and marked in the field. Fencing or other barriers would remain in place until all construction
             and restoration work that involves heavy equipment is complete. Construction vehicles,
             equipment, or materials would not be parked or stored within the fenced area. No signs,
             ropes, cables, or other items would be attached to the protected trees. Grading, filling,
             trenching, paving, irrigation, and landscaping within the drip lines of oak trees would be
             limited. Grading within the drip lines of oak trees would not be permitted unless
             specifically authorized by a Certified Arborist.




Velocity Island Park Project                           28                                          ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                July 2012
                                                                                                                     IS/MND




Cultural Resources
                                                                                     Less Than
                                                                                     Significant
                                                                     Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                     Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                           Impact      Incorporation     Impact       No Impact

5.    CULTURAL RESOURCES -- Would the project:
a)    Cause a substantial adverse change in the
      significance of a historical resource as defined in
      §15064.5?
b)    Cause a substantial adverse change in the
      significance of an archaeological resource pursuant to
      §15064.5?
c)    Directly or indirectly destroy a unique paleontological
      resource or site or unique geologic feature?
d)    Disturb any human remains, including those interred
      outside of formal cemeteries?


Discussion
a)           CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 requires the lead agency (the City of Woodland) to
             consider the effects of a project on historical resources. A historical resource is defined as
             any building, structure, site, or object listed in or determined to be eligible for listing in the
             California Register of Historical Resources (CRHR), or determined by the lead agency
             (City) to be significant in the architectural, engineering, scientific, economic, agricultural,
             educational, social, political, or cultural annals of California. The project site is undeveloped;
             there are no buildings or structures on the site. Therefore, the proposed project would have
             no impact on historical resources under CEQA.

b)           CEQA requires the lead agency to consider the effects of a project on archaeological resources
             and to determine whether any identified archaeological resource is a historical resource.
             CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 also requires consideration of potential project impacts
             on "unique" archaeological resources that do not qualify as historical resources. Public
             Resources Code (PRC) Section 21083.2 defines a unique archaeological resource as an
             archaeological artifact, object, or site about which it can be clearly demonstrated that, without
             merely adding to the current body of knowledge, there is a high probability that it meets
             one or more of the following criteria. The resource:

             1. contains information needed to answer important scientific research questions, and
                there is a demonstrable public interest in that information;
             2. has a special and particular quality, such as being the oldest of its type or the best available
                example of its type; and/or
             3. is directly associated with a scientifically recognized important prehistoric or historic
                event or person.




Velocity Island Park Project                                    29                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                              July 2012
IS/MND




             PRC Section 15064.5(c) (4) provides that, if an archaeological resource is neither a
             unique archaeological resource nor a historical resource, the effects of a project on the
             resource are not considered significant.

             Archival review completed at the Northwest Information Center (NWIC) of the California
             Historic Resources Information System documented all previous cultural resources
             investigations and cultural resources located within the ¼ mile records search study area.
             The records search indicated that one previous cultural resources investigation occurred
             within the records search study area by Far Western Anthropological Group in 2008 (Survey
             Number 35042) along Hwy 113. This survey occurred within 60 feet of the project area
             and yielded negative results within the record search study area. While there are no previously
             recorded cultural resources in the study area, the nearest historic-period resource is an
             unrecorded segment of the Southern Pacific Railroad (P-57-000400) just outside the Project
             area to the east, and a grove of historic oak trees (P-57-000132) is ¼ mile to the north of
             the Project area. The nearest recorded prehistoric archaeological resources are more than
             three miles away to the north-northeast. These resources are two rises containing burnt
             material (YOL-40 and YOL-41) near Grays Bend, an abandoned segment of the Sacramento
             River.

             ESA archaeologist, Brian S. Marks, Ph.D., performed a cultural resources survey of the
             APE on May 9, 2012. Dr. Marks did not observe any cultural material more than 50 years
             old. While no evidence exists to indicate the presence of archaeological resources within
             the project area, the project area is located in an area that may have been attractive to
             prehistoric inhabitants (see Appendix C). The accidental discovery of archaeological
             materials during ground-disturbing activities cannot be entirely discounted. In the unlikely
             event that archaeological materials are unearthed, with implementation Mitigation Measure
             CUL-1, project impacts to archaeological resources would be less than significant.

c)           Paleontology is a multidisciplinary science that combines elements of geology, biology,
             chemistry, and physics in an effort to understand the history of life on earth. Paleontological
             resources, or fossils, are the remains, imprints, or traces of once-living organisms preserved
             in rocks and sediments. The fossil yielding potential of a particular area is highly dependent
             on the geologic age and origin of the underlying rocks. In general, older sedimentary rocks
             (more than 10,000 years old) are considered most likely to yield vertebrate fossils of
             scientific interest.

             The project site is located in Holocene-age (10,000 years Before Present [BP] to Present
             Day) fan alluvial deposits. No known paleontological resources or unique geologic features
             exist within the project area. Therefore, the proposed project is not likely to destroy, either
             directly or indirectly, a unique paleontological resource or site, or geological feature. Due
             to the nature of the proposed project, any proposed earth moving or excavation will occur
             in previous backfills or foundation soils. The project area therefore has a very low potential
             for the unanticipated discovery of fossils. Therefore, the proposed project would result in a
             less than significant impact on paleontological resources or unique geologic features.




Velocity Island Park Project                           30                                          ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                July 2012
                                                                                                 IS/MND




d)           Results of the archival review discussed above indicate that the project area has a low
             potential to contain buried cultural materials including human remains. However, the
             possibility of uncovering human remains cannot be entirely discounted. In the unlikely
             event that human remains are uncovered during ground-disturbing activity, with
             implementation Mitigation Measure CUL-2, project impacts to human remains would
             be less than significant.

Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measure CUL-1: If cultural resources are encountered, all activity in the vicinity of
the find shall cease until it can be evaluated by a qualified archaeologist and a Native American
representative. Prehistoric archaeological materials might include obsidian and chert flaked-
stone tools (e.g., projectile points, knives, scrapers) or tool making debris; culturally darkened
soil ("midden") containing heat-affected rocks, artifacts, or shellfish remains; and stone milling
equipment (e.g., mortars, pestles, handstones, or milling slabs); and battered stone tools, such as
hammerstones and pitted stones. Historic-period materials might include stone, concrete, or adobe
footings and walls; filled wells or privies; and deposits of metal, glass, and/or ceramic refuse. If
the archaeologist and Native American representative determine that the resources may be significant,
they will notify the City of Woodland. An appropriate treatment plan for the resources should be
developed. The archaeologist shall consult with Native American representatives in determining
appropriate treatment for prehistoric or Native American cultural resources.

In considering any suggested mitigation proposed by the archaeologist and Native American
representative, the City will determine whether avoidance is necessary and feasible in light of
factors such as the nature of the find, project design, costs, and other considerations. If avoidance
is infeasible, other appropriate measures (e.g., data recovery) will be instituted. Work may proceed
in other parts of the project area while mitigation for cultural resources is being carried out.

Mitigation Measure CUL-2: If human remains are encountered unexpectedly during construction
excavation and grading activities, State Health and Safety Code Section 7050.5 requires that no
further disturbance shall occur until the County Coroner has made the necessary findings as to
origin and disposition pursuant to PRC Section 5097.98. If the remains are determined to be of
Native American descent, the coroner has 24 hours to notify the NAHC. The NAHC will then
identify the person(s) thought to be the Most Likely Descendent, who will help determine what
course of action should be taken in dealing with the remains.

References
ESA, 2012. Velocity Island Project, Woodland, Yolo County, California: Phase I Cultural
     Resources Study. Prepared for the City of Woodland, May 2012.




Velocity Island Park Project                        31                                       ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                          July 2012
IS/MND




Geology, Soils, and Seismicity
                                                                                          Less Than
                                                                                          Significant
                                                                          Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                          Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                                Impact      Incorporation     Impact       No Impact

6.    GEOLOGY, SOILS, AND SEISMICITY --
      Would the project:
a)    Expose people or structures to potential substantial
      adverse effects, including the risk of loss, injury, or
      death involving:
      i)     Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as delineated
             on the most recent Alquist-Priolo Earthquake
             Fault Zoning Map issued by the State Geologist
             for the area or based on other substantial evidence
             of a known fault? (Refer to Division of Mines and
             Geology Special Publication 42.)
      ii)    Strong seismic ground shaking?

      iii)   Seismic-related ground failure, including
             liquefaction?
      iv)    Landslides?

b)    Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of topsoil?

c)    Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is unstable,
      or that would become unstable as a result of the project,
      and potentially result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral
      spreading, subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse?
d)    Be located on expansive soil, as defined in Table 18-1-B
      of the Uniform Building Code (1994), creating substantial
      risks to life or property?
e)    Have soils incapable of adequately supporting the use
      of septic tanks or alternative wastewater disposal
      systems where sewers are not available for the
      disposal of wastewater?

Discussion
a)           The proposed project area is relatively flat and is located in an area of low surface disturbance.
             According to the Department of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology Special
             Publication 42, the proposed project site is not located within a delineated Alquist-Priolo
             Earthquake Fault Zone.

             The seismic hazard most likely to impact the project site is ground shaking due to a large
             earthquake on one of the major active regional faults. Liquefaction is a process whereby
             water is unconsolidated sand and other granular materials is subjected to pressure usually
             caused by ground motion. Since fluids are not compressible and granular materials are,
             especially when shaken, the water seeks release. As water moves out of materials such as
             sand it causes the granular material to flow and lose strength. Such materials, in effect,
             behave as quicksand. The ground literally flows out from under the building. Earthquake
             shaking is a major cause of liquefaction and has resulted in severe damage areas of
             California. As noted above, the project site's topography is relatively flat and is not
             located within a delineated Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone. Additionally, the



Velocity Island Park Project                                         32                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                   July 2012
                                                                                                       IS/MND




             probability of soil liquefaction actually taking place on the project site is considered
             to be a low to moderate hazard. Additionally, the project would comply with City of
             Woodland building regulations and the International Building Code; therefore, this impact
             would be less than significant.

b)           The proposed land use would include structures and landscaping that would minimize
             bare soil subject to erosion. Compliance with all applicable best management practices
             related to soil erosion outlined in the City of Woodland Code would minimize construction
             impacts relating to top soil erosion. This impact would be less than significant.

c)           As discussed above, the proposed project site's topography is relatively flat and is not
             located within a delineated Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone. Additionally, the probability
             of soil liquefaction actually taking place on the project site is considered to be a low to
             moderate hazard. With adherence to all applicable codes and regulations, including
             the International Building Code, geologic hazard impacts associated with on-or off-site
             landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse would be minimized. The
             impact would be less than significant.

d)           Expansive soils are those possessing clay particles that react to moisture changes by shrinking
             (when dry) or swelling (when wet). Expansive soils can also consist of silty to sandy clay.
             The extent of shrinking and swelling is influenced by the environment, including the extent
             of wet and dry cycles, and by the amount of clay in the soil. This physical change in the
             soils can react unfavorably with building foundations, concrete walkways, swimming pools,
             roadways, and masonry walls. In most developed areas, the existing layer of clay has
             been blended into more granular soils as a part of general site excavation, which helps to
             reduce the soil's expansiveness.

             According to the NRCS Soil Survey, a majority of the project site is Yolo silt loam (Ya).
             The Yolo series consists of well-drained silt loams and silty clay loams on alluvial fans.
             Surface runoff is very slow and the soil is moderately permeable. This soil has a moderate
             shrink-swell potential, which is indicative of expansive soil conditions. A small portion of
             the project site consists of Sycamore silty clay loam, drained (St). The Sycamore series
             consists of somewhat poorly drained silty clay loams on alluvial fans. Surface runoff is
             very slow and permeability is moderately slow. This soil also has a moderate shrink-swell
             potential.

             Although expansive soil conditions are present on the project site, compliance with all
             City building standards and practices, as well as application of the existing regulations
             identified in the International Building Code would minimize the risk associated with
             development of the proposed project, therefore this impact would be less than
             significant.

e)           The proposed project will connect to existing sewer systems; septic tanks would not be
             used as part of the proposed project, therefore there would be no impact.




Velocity Island Park Project                           33                                          ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                July 2012
IS/MND




References
California Department of Conservation, 2007. Division of Mines and Geology, Fault-Rupture
      Hazard Zones in California, Special Publication 42 Interim Revision 2007.

Soil Survey Staff, Natural Resources Conservation Service, United States Department of
      Agriculture. Web Soil Survey. Available online at http://websoilsurvey.nrcs.usda.gov/
      accessed May 15, 2012.




Velocity Island Park Project                   34                                       ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                     July 2012
                                                                                                                     IS/MND




Greenhouse Gas Emissions
                                                                                     Less Than
                                                                                     Significant
                                                                     Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                     Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                           Impact      Incorporation     Impact       No Impact

7.     GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS --
       Would the project:
a)     Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either directly or
       indirectly, that may have a significant impact on the
       environment?
b)     Conflict with an applicable plan, policy or regulation
       adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of
       greenhouse gases?

Discussion
a-b)         Greenhouse gas (GHG) impacts are considered to be cumulative impacts; there are no non-
             cumulative GHG emission impacts from a climate change perspective (CAPCOA, 2008).
             Since YSAQMD has not established a quantitative significance threshold for GHG impacts,
             for construction and operation, projects which would generate 900 metric tons per year
             (MT/yr) or less of CO2e emissions are considered to have a less-than-significant impact.
             900 MT/yr is used as it is considered to be a de minimus level which would capture
             approximately 90% of all GHG emissions (CAPCOA, 2008). If the project exceeds this
             threshold, a 29 percent reduction versus business-as-usual would be assessed pursuant to
             AB 32. This methodology is consistent with approaches described by CAPCOA, thresholds
             used by other air districts (such as SJVAPCD), and previous City of Woodland CEQA
             documents.

             The project-related change in GHG emissions was calculated using the CalEEMod emissions
             model. CalEEMod is a land use emissions computer model designed to provide a platform
             for government agencies, land use planners, and environmental professionals to quantify
             potential criteria pollutant and GHG emissions associated with both construction and
             operation of a variety of land use projects. The model quantifies direct emissions from
             construction and operation (including vehicle use), as well as indirect emissions, such as
             GHG emissions from energy use, solid waste disposal, vegetation planting and/or
             removal, and water use.

             GHGs associated with construction would be generated by construction equipment, haul
             trucks, and worker vehicles. As shown in Appendix B, maximum annual GHGs of 232 metric
             tons of CO2 would be emitted during the year 2012. This amount is less than the 900
             MT/yr de minimis threshold value described above. Therefore, the construction-related
             impacts of the project on global climate change are considered less-than significant.

             In regards to long-term operations, GHGs from on-road vehicles, area sources, energy,
             waste, and water/wastewater conveyance would be the primary sources of GHGs associated
             with project operations. Emissions are summarized below in Table 3.




Velocity Island Park Project                                    35                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                              July 2012
IS/MND




                                                     TABLE 3
                                       UNMITIGATED GHGS FROM OPERATIONS a, b


                Project Source                                                      CO2e (MT/yr)

                Area                                                                       0
                          c
                Energy                                                                     32
                Mobile                                                                    129
                Waste                                                                      1
                Water                                                                      12
                Total GHGs                                                                174
                Screening Threshold of Significance                                       900
                Significant (Yes or No)?                                                  No

                a. Project operational emissions estimates were made CalEEMod, as well as a manual calculation of grid-
                   electricity and GHGs associated with the motor to operate the ziplines. See Appendix B for more
                   information.
                b. Values in bold are in excess of the applicable significance threshold. NA = Not Available.
                c. The "Energy" source category includes facility (from CalEEMod) and motor energy requirements.



             As shown in Table 3, GHG emissions generated by these sources would equate to 174 metric
             tons of CO2 per year. This amount is less than the 900 MT/yr de minimis threshold value
             described above. Therefore, the construction-related impacts of the project on global
             climate change would be less than significant.

             The City of Woodland has not established a GHG reduction plan. The analysis described
             above indicates the project would not interfere with the State's implementation of AB 32
             or the AB 32 Scoping Plan. The project would not conflict with any applicable plans,
             policies, or regulations adopted for the purpose of reducing GHG emissions. This impact
             would be less than significant.

References
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA), 2008. CEQA and Climate
      Change: Evaluating and Addressing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Projects Subject to
      the California Environmental Quality Act.




Velocity Island Park Project                                        36                                                    ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                       July 2012
                                                                                                                        IS/MND




Hazards and Hazardous Materials
                                                                                        Less Than
                                                                                        Significant
                                                                        Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                        Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                              Impact      Incorporation     Impact       No Impact

8.    HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS --
      Would the project:
a)    Create a significant hazard to the public or the
      environment through the routine transport, use, or
      disposal of hazardous materials?
b)    Create a significant hazard to the public or the
      environment through reasonably foreseeable upset
      and accident conditions involving the release of
      hazardous materials into the environment?
c)    Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or
      acutely hazardous materials, substances, or waste
      within one-quarter mile of an existing or proposed
      school?
d)    Be located on a site which is included on a list of
      hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant to
      Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a result,
      would it create a significant hazard to the public or the
      environment?
e)    For a project located within an airport land use plan
      or, where such a plan has not been adopted, within
      two miles of a public airport or public use airport,
      would the project result in a safety hazard for people
      residing or working in the project area?
f)    For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip,
      would the project result in a safety hazard for people
      residing or working in the project area?
g)    Impair implementation of or physically interfere with
      an adopted emergency response plan or emergency
      evacuation plan?
h)    Expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss,
      injury or death involving wildland fires, including where
      wildlands are adjacent to urbanized areas or where
      residences are intermixed with wildlands?

Discussion
a)           Construction and operation of the proposed project would potentially require the use of
             various types and quantities of hazardous materials (i.e. gasoline, solvents, oils, etc.).
             Furthermore, construction of the project could result in the exposure of workers or residents
             to hazardous wastes or materials, posing potential threats to their health, including the
             excavation of a previously unknown contaminated site. Implementation of Mitigation
             Measures HAZ-1 and HAZ-2 would reduce potential impacts to less than significant
             levels, therefore this impact would be less than significant.

b)           During construction of the proposed project, it is anticipated that limited quantities of
             miscellaneous hazardous substances, such as gasoline, diesel fuel, hydraulic fluid, solvents,
             oils, etc. would be brought onto the site. In addition, proposed project operations may
             include the limited use of fuels and other hazardous materials such as those typically



Velocity Island Park Project                                       37                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                 July 2012
IS/MND




             associated with equipment use and servicing. Although, these materials would be stored,
             handled, and transported per federal, state, and local regulatory requirements, as with any
             liquid or solid, during handling and transfer from one container to another, the potential for
             an accidental release exists. Depending on the relative hazard of the material, if a spill were
             to occur of significant quantity, the accidental release could pose both a hazard to workers
             and residents, as well as the environment. Implementation of Mitigation Measure HAZ-2
             would reduce potential impacts to less than significant levels, therefore this impact would
             be less than significant.

c)           There are no existing or proposed schools within one-quarter mile of the project site.
             Furthermore, any hazardous materials used during demolition or construction would be
             stored, handled, and transported per federal, state and local regulatory requirements.
             Furthermore, implementation of Mitigation Measures HAZ-1and HAZ-2 would
             reduce potential impacts to less than significant levels; therefore, this impact would be less
             than significant.

d)           A Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) Envirostor database records search
             was conducted for the entire project site. The database search concluded that the proposed
             project site and adjacent sites were not identified as being contaminated or as being a clean-
             up site, and, thus, did not identify any of the environmental conditions that may result in
             a significant hazard to the public. There are no identified hazardous environmental conditions
             on the project site. However, the project has not been the subject of a Phase 1 Environmental
             Site Assessment, the preparation of such an assessment is required prior to the construction
             of the project. With implementation of Mitigation Measure HAZ-3, this impact would
             be less than significant.

e)           The Watts Woodland Airport is located 5 ½ miles south-southwest, on County Road 94.
             The Sacramento International Airport is located at 6900 Airport Blvd., approximately 8 miles
             east of the project site. The project site is not located within an airport land use plan map, nor
             is it within two miles of a public use airport (SACOG, 2003). The proposed project would
             not result in a safety hazard for people residing or working in the project area; therefore,
             this impact would be less than significant.

f)           The proposed project site is not located within the vicinity of a private airstrip. The
             nearest private airstrip, Medlock Field, is located 5 ½ miles to the south of the project
             site. Therefore, there would be no impact.

g)           The proposed project will not interfere with an emergency response plan or emergency
             evacuation plan. Prior to approval, the applicant will be required to demonstrate compliance
             with all emergency access requirements and other emergency standards in place in the
             City of Woodland. This impact would be less than significant.

h)           As previously discussed, the project site is located on a parcel currently used as a detention
             basin immediately adjacent to agricultural uses, I-5 and Hwy 113 with developed industrial
             and commercial in the area and is not within or adjacent to a wildlands area, consequently,



Velocity Island Park Project                             38                                            ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                    July 2012
                                                                                                        IS/MND




             the proposed project will not expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss,
             injury, or death involving wildland fires; consequently, there would be no impact.

Mitigation Measures
Mitigation Measure HAZ-1: If soil contaminated by potentially hazardous materials is exposed
during construction, the local responsible agency shall be notified. A work plan to characterize
and possibly remove contaminated soil may be required by the local responsible agency or other
regulatory agency.

Mitigation Measure HAZ-2: The applicant shall ensure all contractors and employees immediately
control the source of any leak and contain any spill using appropriate spill containment and
countermeasures. If required by any regulatory agency, contaminated media shall be collected
and disposed of at an offsite facility approved to accept such media. In addition, all precautions
required by the RWQCB for the NPDES construction activity storm water permits would be
taken to ensure that no hazardous materials enter any nearby waterways.

Mitigation Measure HAZ-3: A Phase I Environmental Assessment must be completed by a
qualified professional for the project before any ground disturbing activity begins.
References
Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC), 2012. Envirostor Database Search available at:
     http://www.envirostor.dtsc.ca.gov/public/; accessed May 16, 2012.

SACOG, 2003. Sacramento Area Council of Governments Airport Land Use Commission,
    Sacramento International Airport Comprehensive Land Use Plan; September 2003.




Velocity Island Park Project                          39                                          ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                               July 2012
IS/MND




Hydrology and Water Quality
                                                                                         Less Than
                                                                                         Significant
                                                                         Potentially        with       Less Than
                                                                         Significant     Mitigation    Significant
Issues (and Supporting Information Sources):                               Impact      Incorporation     Impact       No Impact

9.    HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY --
      Would the project:
a)    Violate any water quality standards or waste
      discharge requirements?
b)    Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere
      substantially with groundwater recharge such that there
      would be a net deficit in aquifer volume or a lowering
      of the local groundwater table level (e.g., the production
      rate of pre-existing nearby wells would drop to a level
      which would not support existing land uses or planned
      uses for which permits have been granted)?
c)    Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of a
      site or area through the alteration of the course of a
      stream or river, or by other means, in a manner that
      would result in substantial erosion or siltation on- or
      off-site?
d)    Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of a site
      or area through the alteration of the course of a stream
      or river, or by other means, substantially increase the
      rate or amount of surface runoff in a manner that would
      result in flooding on- or off-site?
e)    Create or contribute runoff water which would exceed
      the capacity of existing or planned stormwater
      drainage systems or provide substantial additional
      sources of polluted runoff?
f)    Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?

g)    Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard area as
      mapped on a federal Flood Hazard Boundary or Flood
      Insurance Rate Map or other flood hazard delineation
      map?
h)    Place within a 100-year flood hazard area structures
      that would impede or redirect flood flows?
i)    Expose people or structures to a significant risk of
      loss, injury or death involving flooding, including
      flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or dam?
j)    Expose people or structures to a significant risk of
      loss, injury or death involving inundation by seiche,
      tsunami, or mudflow?

Environmental Setting
The project site is located to the north of the City of Woodland, and currently serves as a
hydrologic detention basin used by the City. Cache Creek is the nearest water body to the project
site, and flows west to east approximately 1.5 miles to the north of the project site. Cache Creek
eventually discharges into the Cache Creek Settling Basin, which is located northeast of the City,
and approximately 2.5 miles east of the project site. During high flows, Cache Creek discharges
into the Yolo Bypass, which eventually empties into the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, the San
Francisco Bay, and the Pacific Ocean. Although Cache Creek is the nearest water body to the
project site, drainage from the project site does not drain into Cache Creek. Under existing



Velocity Island Park Project                                        40                                               ESA / 120259
IS/MND                                                                                                                  July 2012
                                                                         All Traffic Data
                                                                                   (916) 771-8700
City of Woodland                                                                                                           File Name     : 12-7116-001 N East-I5 NB Ramps
                                                                                                                           Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date    : 3/29/2012
                                                                                                                           Page No       :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           N. East Street                      I-5 Northbound Ramps                      N. East Street                      I-5 Northbound Ramps
                           Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                               Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Left       Thru   Right App. Total     Left     Thru     Right   App. Total   Left      Thru    Right App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00       0       29        0           29     28           0      24         52        0       32        5           37      0           0       0         0          118
          07:15       1       34        0           35     32           0      15         47        0       17        8           25      0           0       0         0          107
          07:30       2       44        0           46     39           0      12         51        0       28        3           31      0           0       0         0          128
          07:45       2       51        0           53     62           0      27         89        0       35        5           40      0           0       0         0          182
            Total     5     158         0          163    161           0      78       239         0      112       21          133      0           0       0         0          535

          08:00       2      38         0           40     37        0       13          50         0      40         6           46      0        0         0          0         136
          08:15       1      36         0           37     41        0       19          60         0      22         7           29      0        0         0          0         126
          08:30       0      36         0           36     34        0       16          50         0      31        11           42      0        0         0          0         128
          08:45       2      33         0           35     33        0       15          48         0      39         6           45      0        0         0          0         128
           Total      5     143         0          148    145        0       63         208         0     132        30          162      0        0         0          0         518




          16:00       1      55         0           56     41        0       17          58         0      18         8           26      0        0         0          0         140
          16:15       2      52         0           54     36        0       17          53         0      40         7           47      0        0         0          0         154
          16:30       2      92         0           94     39        0       20          59         0      27         8           35      0        0         0          0         188
          16:45       2      40         0           42     37        0       21          58         0      39         5           44      0        0         0          0         144
           Total      7     239         0          246    153        0       75         228         0     124        28          152      0        0         0          0         626

          17:00       2      52         0           54     32        0        9          41         0      44        11           55      0        0         0          0         150
          17:15       0      43         0           43     30        0       10          40         0      43         6           49      0        0         0          0         132
          17:30       2      54         0           56     35        0       15          50         0      36         5           41      0        0         0          0         147
          17:45       0      33         0           33     26        0       13          39         0      35         4           39      0        0         0          0         111
           Total      4     182         0          186    123        0       47         170         0     158        26          184      0        0         0          0         540

    Grand Total     21     722          0          743    582        0      263         845         0    526       105           631      0        0         0          0       2219
     Apprch %       2.8    97.2         0                 68.9       0      31.1                    0    83.4      16.6                   0        0         0
       Total %      0.9    32.5         0         33.5    26.2       0      11.9        38.1        0    23.7       4.7         28.4      0        0         0          0
                                                                         All Traffic Data
                                                                                  (916) 771-8700
City of Woodland                                                                                                          File Name     : 12-7116-002 N East-I5 SB Ramps
                                                                                                                          Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                          Start Date    : 3/29/2012
                                                                                                                          Page No       :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           N. East Street                     I-5 Southbound Ramps                      N. East Street                          Driveway
                           Southbound                               Westbound                            Northbound                            Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru      Right   App. Total   Left      Thru   Right App. Total     Left     Thru     Right   App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00      16       39        1           56      3          0       3          6        0       32       21           53      0       0       0            0          115
          07:15      24       49        0           73      6          0       4         10        0       28       25           53      0       0       0            0          136
          07:30      23       64        0           87      9          0       5         14        0       32       53           85      0       0       0            0          186
          07:45      15     106         0          121      4          0       7         11        0       48       50           98      0       0       0            0          230
            Total    78     258         1          337     22          0      19         41        0      140      149          289      0       0       0            0          667

          08:00      22      69         0           91      6        0        5         11         0      52        37           89      0      0        0            0         191
          08:15      25      73         0           98      4        0        6         10         0      40        39           79      0      0        0            0         187
          08:30      17      71         0           88     11        0        5         16         0      44        37           81      0      0        0            0         185
          08:45      14      51         0           65      7        0        3         10         0      41        24           65      0      0        0            0         140
           Total     78     264         0          342     28        0       19         47         0     177       137          314      0      0        0            0         703




          16:00      33      78         0          111     11        0        4         15         1      36        45           82      0      0        1            1         209
          16:15      29      65         0           94      4        0        3          7         0      46        36           82      1      0        0            1         184
          16:30      40      94         0          134      4        0        5          9         0      50        58          108      0      0        0            0         251
          16:45      24      67         0           91      6        0        5         11         0      47        38           85      0      0        0            0         187
           Total    126     304         0          430     25        0       17         42         1     179       177          357      1      0        1            2         831

          17:00      20      77         0           97      6        0        3          9         0      63        60          123      0      0        0            0         229
          17:15      15      63         0           78      6        0        2          8         0      50        44           94      0      0        0            0         180
          17:30      19      71         0           90      2        0        7          9         0      47        21           68      0      0        0            0         167
          17:45      15      51         0           66      3        0        2          5         0      47        31           78      0      0        0            0         149
           Total     69     262         0          331     17        0       14         31         0     207       156          363      0      0        0            0         725

    Grand Total     351    1088         1        1440      92        0      69         161         1    703       619         1323       1      0        1            2       2926
     Apprch %       24.4   75.6       0.1                 57.1       0     42.9                  0.1    53.1      46.8                  50      0       50
       Total %       12    37.2         0         49.2     3.1       0      2.4         5.5        0     24       21.2         45.2      0      0        0          0.1
