                                             PUBLIC NOTICE

In Accordance with the Statutes of the State of Illinois and the Ordinances of the City of Highland Park, a
Regular Meeting of the Highland Park Plan Commission is scheduled to be held at the hour of 7:30 P.M.
on Tuesday, November 5, 2013 at the Highland Park City Hall, 1707 St. Johns Avenue, Highland Park,
Illinois, during which it is anticipated there will be a discussion of the following:

                                           City of Highland Park
                                  Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                               Highland Park City Hall, 1707 St. Johns Avenue

                                             November 5, 2013

                                                  7:30 P.M.

                                      MEETING AGENDA (Revised)

I.        Call to Order

II.       Roll Call

III.      Approval of Minutes
       A. Regular Meeting of October 15, 2013

IV.       Scheduled Business

       A. Consideration of Staff-Drafted Findings of Fact that Recommend to the City Council the
          Approval of a Proposed Conditional Use of a Sports Training Facility at 3570 Western
          Avenue. The Plan Commission will review and modify as necessary, staff-drafted Findings of
          Fact that recommend approval of a Special Use Permit to allow the Warehouse Gym & Boxing
          Club to establish a Sports Training Facility at 3570 Western Ave., as heard in Public Hearing 13-
          10-SUP-004.

       B. Pre-Application Discussion for a Proposed Amendment to the Planned Development of
          Crossroads Shopping Center at 113-229 Skokie Valley Rd. to: Modify the Parking and Site
          Plan; Construct a 1400 Sq. Ft. Building Addition; and, Grant an Exception to Section
          150.408 to Allow the Use of Sale of Soft Drinks by Vending Machine Outside of a Building.
          The Plan Commission will give guidance to applicant/owner, Federal Realty Investment Trust, as
          represented by Attorney Hal Francke, on its proposal for an amendment to the Crossroads
          Shopping Center Planned Development to allow a building addition, reconfiguration of the site
          plan, new outdoor vending machine sales, and a change in land use that affects the requirement for
          off-street parking.

V.        Other Business
          A. Next Regular Meeting- November 19, 2013
          B. Case Briefing

VI.       Business from the Public

VII.      Adjournment


Posted at City Hall before 5:00 p.m. on November 1, 2013
                                  CITY OF HIGHLAND PARK
                                    Tuesday, October 15, 2013

                    MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF
            THE PLAN COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF HIGHLAND PARK, IL


MEETING DATE:                  Tuesday, October 15, 2013

MEETING LOCATION:              Council Chambers, City Hall, 1707 St. John's Avenue
                               Highland Park, IL

I.        CALL TO ORDER

At 7:30 PM Vice Chair Stolberg called the meeting to order and asked Director Fontane to call
the roll.

II.       ROLL CALL

Members Present: Bilotti, Glenner, Kaplan, Reinstein, Stolberg

Members Absent: Glazer, Rubin

Director Fontane took the roll and declared a quorum present.

Staff Present: Fontane, Sloan, Cross, Smith, West

Student Rep.: None

Council Liaison: Blumberg

Corporation Council: Mark Burkland

III.      APPROVAL OF MINUTES

       A. Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission, October 1, 2013

          Vice Chair Stolberg entertained a motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting
          of the Plan Commission held on October 1, 2013. A motion for approval was made by
          Commissioner Bilotti and seconded by Commissioner Kaplan; Commissioner Kaplan
          voted present. On a voice vote, the minutes were approved unanimously.

IV.       SCHEDULED BUSINESS

       A. Public Hearing 13-10-SUP-004 for Consideration of an Application to Allow a
          Conditional Use of a Sports Training Facility at 3570 Western Avenue.


                                 Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                       Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                                 1 of 12
Vice Chair Stolberg read the Public Hearing Statement into the Record to open the Public
Hearing and the members present introduced themselves. Director Fontane read into the
record that proof of publication was on file at the Community Development office.
Planner West made a presentation for the above item which reviewed the Special Use
process, background of the use and location, zoning district, and business operations
which included information about the boxing club membership, classes for children, site
configuration and on-site parking, plat of survey, use, special use standards and
recommendation.

The Commission did not have any immediate questions for staff and the Vice Chair
invited the public to speak on the matter. Counsel Burkland administered the oath.

Mr. Ken Chafey, 530 Old Elm Rd., Highland Park, was concerned about deliveries, trucks
leaving ruts in the parkway, increased traffic and debris.

Planner West stated there would be no large deliveries.

Mr. Albert Falcon, Highland Park, applicant, stated there are no large deliveries to his
business and there is large container in the back for garbage. He stated the only traffic
would be the employees.

Commissioner Kaplan asked where the children would be waiting for their parents to pick
them up after classes.

Mr. Falcon stated they would be waiting inside.

Commissioner Kaplan asked if there would be loitering outside.

Mr. Falcon stated there would be no loitering.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about the discrepancy in numbers regarding parking and
occupancy in the package.

Planner West stated the numbers are based on the s.f. of the building for persons in
permitted occupancy for fire prevention permitting. Parking requirements are not based
on these fire inspection standards.

Commissioner Reinstein asked what the parking should be for this use.

Planner West stated there is no defined amount. It is determined by the Zoning
Administrator based on the specific business.

Commissioner Kaplan asked about the maximum number of students at one time.

Mr. Falcon stated each trainer only has 2 students at a time.

Commissioner Kaplan stated this area had been discussed a few months ago regarding a
dance studio and did not see any large issues from this use.
                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        2 of 12
   Vice Chair Stolberg requested a motion to close the public comment portion of the public
   hearing. Commissioner Glenner so motioned which was seconded by Commissioner
   Bilotti.

   Commissioner Kaplan motioned to direct staff to prepare findings of fact to approve the
   application to establish a conditional use of a sports training facility at 3570 Western Ave.
   The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bilotti.

   On a voice vote, the motion passed unanimously.

B. Concurrent Public Hearings:

   13-10-ZTA-004 for a Proposed Text Amendment to Chapter 150, Articles II
   (Interpretations and Definitions), IV (Conditional and Permitted Uses), V (Planned
   Developments), VII (Area, Bulk and Density), VIII (Off-Street Parking and Loading)
   to establish a new Article XXIII (Downtown Form and Design) of City of Highland
   Park Zoning Code of 1997 (as Amended); and,

   13-08-REZ-002 for a Proposed Zoning Map Amendment to Properties Currently
   Zoned RM1 Medium to High Density Multiple Family; RO Residential Office
   District; and, B4 Service Business District.

   Vice Chair Stolberg read the Public Hearing Statement into the Record to open the Public
   Hearing and the members present introduced themselves. Director Fontane read into the
   record that proof of publication was on file at the Community Development office.

   Planner Smith made a presentation for the above items that included: the amendment
   process, context of recommendations as they relate to the vision statement for downtown
   Highland Park, strategic issues for redevelopment, Lakota Group team project study area,
   identified redevelopment constraints, build-out renderings for the North Triangle and
   Sunset Park, new zoning district concepts, current and proposed zoning text and map,
   proposed increase in permitted building heights, building height definition for the RO, B4
   and B5 zoning districts, historic and proposed building height restrictions, proposed off-
   street parking amendments for RO, B4 and B5 zoning districts, proposed off-street
   parking amendments multi-family residential, retail and service parking requirements,
   planned development thresholds, new Article XXIII - Downtown Form and Design, future
   connectivity and frontage classification map, downtown form guidelines, and street
   classifications.

   Vice Chair Stolberg thanked Planner Smith for his presentation.

   Commissioner Bilotti asked about the planned development recommendation from the
   consultant and asked what the Community Development Dept. recommends.

   Planner Smith stated it was not their place to evaluate the consultant's, but that direction
   depended on the approach the Commission wanted to take as a policy matter.

                           Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                 Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                           3 of 12
Vice Chair Stolberg invited members of the audience who desired to speak on the matter
to rise for the oath. Counsel Burkland administered the oath.

Mr. Dan Wattick, 1660 First St., Highland Park, read a letter from the president of the
Sheridan Square Condo Association stating they were opposed to a change in the zoning.

Mr. Ron Lesky, 1660 First St., Highland Park, stated businesses on Laurel are on a natural
line of separation from Second St. He thought the area around his condo development
should stay the same so it would not affect the residential character.

Mr. Richard Goldstein, 1649 Hickory, Highland Park, referred to the B4-6 next to his
building and stated he objected to the change since his building is only three stories and he
was concerned if a developer were to build a five or six story building it would dwarf their
property and be an eyesore. He suggested making the area a B4-5.

Mr. Bill Dietrich, 1930 Dale, Highland Park, former Chair of the Plan Commission,
thanked Manager Sloan, Planner Smith and staff for their efforts in the study. He thought
the product produced by the Lakota group met the high expectations of the City. Their
objective was to develop regulations that promote the City's vision statement and
reinvestment in the downtown. The comprehensive map and text amendment proposals
are the results of this effort. In the process one of his concerns was parking. Lending
institutions are very concerned about this and are a constraint on how much parking a
developer will provide. Tenants are a second constraint and the last thing they want is not
enough parking. He thought that what was proposed is a good way to balance between the
overly prescriptive parking requirements and recognizes in the marketplace the City does
have allies who want to achieve the same results the City wants.

Mr. Hal Emalfarb, 100 Laurel, Highland Park, was excited about the process of
revitalizing the community and hoped they would deliberate this issue carefully.

Mr. Rob Rowe, 858 Baldwin, Highland Park, representative for the owner of the 76
Station at Central and McGovern. The owner has acquired other property in the area and
they are currently in discussions with developers. They are looking at apartments. He
stated there is a shortage of smaller units in Highland Park and a number of people are
moving out of their houses and want smaller units. He stated he supported the study.

Ms. Mag Sibbernsen, 574 Vine, Highland Park, asked about the economic impact on the
small housing units and would there be a decrease in value. If so, what provisions is the
City going to make.

Mr. Lawrence Levin, 2021 St. John's, Highland Park, stated there are a lot of children
who walk along Elm Pl. and Sheridan Rd. and any zoning which would affect the traffic in
that area would be detrimental to them. He asked the Plan Commission to consider this.

Ms. Ann Israel, 2021 St. John's, Highland Park asked about density and the 800 s.f.
apartment size. She asked who would live in an apartment of that size. She asked if there
had been cost analyses of the infrastructure changes involved.
                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        4 of 12
Director Fontane stated they had received a letter from Lawrence Hillman regarding this
matter which was entered into the record.

Vice Chair Stolberg asked for a motion to close the public comment portion of the public
hearing. Commissioner Bilotti so moved; the motion was seconded by Commissioner
Reinstein.

Vice Chair Stolberg thanked the public for their input.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about the different B4 categories and if the zoning
classification would apply to residential, retail and office.

Planner Smith replied the B4 is a mixed zoning district and allows commercial, office and
residential above the first floor. There is no proposal to change what can be built in the
B4. The difference of the B4-4, B4-5, and B4-6 relates to the intensity of development
that can be built.

Commissioner Reinstein asked what the ground floor would be.

Planner Smith replied non-residential. It could be office, service or retail.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about the second floor and up.

Planner Smith replied it could be office or residential.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if could be a six-story office building.

Planner Smith replied it depends upon the district. He stated there is no requirement that
the building be mixed use.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if there is a project which meets the minimum size and it is
all office, would a parking deck count as a story.

Planner Smith stated if it was underneath, it would not. If it was decked above ground it
would count as a story.

Commissioner Reinstein stated the Lakota study handled parking by putting it
underground. He asked if that was the look they want should the code address it.

Planner Smith stated the code does address it. While the code does not require
underground parking, some of the items in proposed Article XXIII indentify where
parking lots can be.

Manager Sloan stated if you look at the drawings and the study they made assumptions
about some parking being indoors and some surface parking. This is described in the new
Article XXIII.

                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        5 of 12
Planner Smith stated a vehicular frontage street provides for increased setbacks from the
street and a limited area for surface parking. One concept is not to have a field of parking
in front of a building.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about more density for sites with multiple uses, daytime
traffic and residents. He wanted to know how the zoning code would change if there was
more density for residential.

Planner Smith stated the increases are predominantly about residential.

Commissioner Reinstein stated he favored granting higher heights and more density for
residential only. He did not want to establish Highland Park as the center for the north
shore office market. He asked what the zoning code would look like to prevent this.

Manager Sloan stated they had to change the proposed policies so they do not end up with
multi-story office or retail.

Planner Smith asked if Commissioner Reinstein's vision for the areas out of the core was
multi-story residential. He stated one of theories behind form based codes is the design
character of the buildings within broad parameters.

Manager Sloan stated if asked, the land use policy for any given building could be
adjusted, they could do that, but not doing it leaves it open to the market.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if you were a developer and wanted to forego the ground
floor commercial space, would that be possible.

Planner Smith stated B4 does not allow for ground floor residential space. He stated you
might find the management office on the ground floor. If you desire strictly residential the
alternate is re-zoning.

Commissioner Glenner asked how they should address the transition areas.

Manager Sloan asked if he meant along Central where the B4-6 was recommended.

Planner Smith stated the zoning map Lakota recommended is not sacrosanct.

Vice Chair Stolberg stated these were not unique questions ­ height, traffic, parking, and
asked if the City had commissioned a traffic study.

Planner Smith stated a traffic study was not performed.

Vice Chair Stolberg asked about parking and people saying it is tight. He thought this
referred to street parking. However, Renaissance Place and Port Clinton report under
utilized parking.



                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        6 of 12
   Planner Smith stated Renaissance Place is not fully occupied and if it was there would be
   a higher percentage of use. During the peak hours there is presently readily available
   parking.

   Vice Chair Stolberg mentioned the new zoning B4, B5 and B6 and new method of
   calculating height rather than to the middle of the peak. He asked where the height is
   calculated at 50' it is feasible that the peak is 59'. He stated this space would not be
   occupied but an architectural aesthetic.

   Planner Smith confirmed this.

   Vice Chair Stolberg mentioned Laurel Ave. and the possibility of changing the western
   portion from B4-6 to B4-5. He asked if the maximum height in the district was 50'.

   Planner Smith stated they have raised it from three-stories and 40' to four-stories and 50'
   as the permitted zoning.

   Vice Chair Stolberg asked if a permissible use in the B4-6, would be four-stories, 50'.

   Planner Smith stated they would not regulate the height in terms of feet in this district.

   Commissioner Glenner asked what other commissions were involved at this point.

   Planner Smith replied it was just the Plan Commission now.

   Commissioner Glenner asked if they had talked to police and fire departments.

   Planner Smith replied yes.

   Vice Chair Stolberg requested a motion to continue the hearing to December 3, 2013. A
   motion to continue the hearing to December 3rd, at 7:30pm in the Council Chambers was
   made by Commissioner Reinstein and seconded by Commissioner Glenner. On a voice
   vote the motion passed 4-1. Commissioner Bilotti voted no.

C. Preapplication Discussion for a Proposed Planned Development of Mixed-Use Retail
   and Multi-Family Residential Building at 515-555 Roger Williams Ave.; and,
   Proposed Zoning Code Text Amendments to Modify the Area, Bulk and Density
   Requirements for the B2 Ravinia Commercial District and B2-RW Roger Williams
   Overlay District.

   Planner Cross made a presentation for the above item including summary information,
   proposed mixed-use building and site plan, PUD relief vs. code text amendments,
   proposed parking, issues for consideration, parking recommendations, shared public
   parking, building height and density, district build-out scenarios, master plan consistency,
   and policy considerations.

   Commissioner Bilotti asked if these units would be rental.

                           Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                 Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                           7 of 12
Planner Cross replied they would be rental.

Commissioner Kaplan asked about the existing parking lot north of the property along the
tracks and wanted to know if the entrance would be one way and exit on Pleasant.

Planner Cross stated this would be the most likely traffic pattern.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if commercial traffic would enter there also.

Planner Cross replied it would and the parking immediately behind the proposed building
is committed to residential. Some of the other parking on the shared property would be
for commercial use.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if someone went shopping they would not park on site but
elsewhere.

Manager Sloan stated there is a pass through in the design so you can walk from the back
of the building to the front.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if commercial and stores owners would park in the rear.

Manager Sloan confirmed this and would pass through the building.

Planner Cross stated the parking restricted to residential use is behind the building.

Commissioner Kaplan asked about the number of parking spaces and the number of
complementary spaces and stated that as each property along the block is developed there
are fewer common parking spaces for future developments. He asked at what it point does
this development get more than its fair share of the common parking spaces.

Planner Cross stated the density of developments would play a role. If only 10,000-
15,000 s.f. of land can be assembled the density would not be as great as if the Walgreen's
site were redeveloped. As each proposal is considered they would require a vacancy study
to determine what is available.

Manager Sloan stated it depends on each site. This street is front and center in its ability
to have a reduction of vehicles based on its proximity to the train. It is possible there may
be less than one car per residential unit. The shared complementary use would have to be
demonstrated.

Commissioner Bilotti asked about the number of parking spaces available within 400'.

Manager Sloan stated it was 215.

Commissioner Reinstein thought that was a sizeable amount and asked how they are being
used.


                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        8 of 12
Manager Sloan stated they would present that information at public hearing and the
application and would have to supply a parking study showing vacancy rates.

Commissioner Reinstein asked what would happen during the Ravinia season.

Manager Sloan stated Ravinia has moved its shuttle parking to different places over the
years and that would be something to consider with more redevelopment.

Commissioner Glenner asked if the applicant had compelling reasons to go forward.

Manager Sloan stated they asked the City Council to look at it and asked staff to make
recommendations in regards to the feasibility of policy change. They would collectively
work on this with the applicant.

Commissioner Glenner asked about the hidden parking to the north and how much it is
used.

Manager Sloan stated every time she had been there no one was using it. At one time
Ravinia Plumbing filled the spaces with their vans but since they have left it is usually
open.

Commissioner Glenner stated the shared parking made sense and thought they should be
exploring it. He would like to see something happen at this site.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about the building height and if the Ravinia advisory group
had been consulted.

Manager Sloan stated they encouraged the applicant to give them the best architectural
result and they wanted the Commission to see what this would look like. They could
compare it to the building across the street which was built to meet current code and think
about which form is the desired going forward.

Vice Chair Stolberg agreed this meeting should be done so as not to slow the applicant
down and would be in favor of a policy change rather than specific relief. In terms of the
height, this is probably the best corner for a higher building and it would not be offensive
to the block. He asked about the mechanicals on roof. He asked if they had done
anything similar relating to shared parking; and, that if the applicant is seeking parking
relief, what would be the public benefit in exchange. He thought maybe the City could
defray some of the maintenance costs and save the developer the cost of building parking
spaces. Maybe there could be some annual contribution to maintenance of the shared
parking lot.

Manager Sloan stated this was a PUD regardless of policy change and any relief would
include the discussion of a public benefit.

Commissioner Reinstein mentioned the location of the site and the height and asked if
they proposed to zone the rest of the block at different height.

                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        9 of 12
Manager Sloan stated part of the policy discussion would be to set a height. They would
find the right height for the entire block and see if this particular project would still needed
relief.

Vice Chair Stolberg asked if the current permissible height is 35'. Manager Sloan
confirmed this.

Mr. Alfred Klairmont, applicant, 2233 Egandale Rd., Highland Park, made a presentation
for the above item and asked for the Commission's guidance.

Commissioner Bilotti asked if there would be street parking in front.

Manager Sloan stated there would be and they would be closing one of the driveways.

Commissioner Reinstein asked about the unit sizes compared to the building the east side
of tracks.

Mr. Klairmont stated there would be eight units on each floor, two-bedroom, two-bath.
There would two one-bedrooms on each floor. He stated they would be condo quality
apartments.

Commissioner Reinstein asked who they expected to rent the units.

Mr. Klairmont stated they expected a transit oriented tenant. He stated the developer is
not asking for any financial assistance.

Commissioner Kaplan asked what the site included and if it included the insurance office
and sushi restaurant.

Mr. Mike De Rouin, Fitzgerald Assoc. Architects, 912 W. Lake St., Chicago, IL, stated
these were not included.

Commissioner Kaplan asked about the traffic pattern and if everyone enters from Roger
Williams and exit onto Pleasant.

Mr. Klairmont confirmed this.

Commissioner Kaplan asked some if the residents might be concerned about this.

Mr. Klairmont stated he thought they would be excited about an improved Ravinia district.

Commissioner Kaplan stated it was something to take into account.

Vice Chair Stolberg stated the traffic would not be what it used to be. They would await
the results of the traffic study. He thought the target market were tenants who would take
the train.


                         Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                               Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                        10 of 12
        Manager Sloan mentioned the affordable housing north of the alley and their only means
        of ingress and egress was through the alley. So there is already regular residential traffic.

        Commissioner Kaplan asked about the six units of affordable housing.

        Manager Sloan stated they are required to have an affordable housing component.

        Commissioner Kaplan asked if these would be the one-bedroom units.

        Manager Sloan replied they have to be in proportion to the number of market rate units
        and there would be some two-bedrooms and some one-bedrooms.

        Commissioner Reinstein asked about the area in the back for proposed paved parking ­
        quantity to be determined. He stated it was almost like a ravine.

        Mr. Joe Villanti, Imperial Realty, stated he had walked it off and it was about 125' where
        they could put parking closest to the east.

        Commissioner Reinstein stated it did not look like there was 10' from the north edge of
        the alley into the brush without dropping down 3'.

        Mr. Valenti stated it lined up with the parking farther to the west.

        Councilman Blumberg asked the applicant for renderings that showed the building in
        relationship to the actual surroundings.

        Commissioner Glenner asked what direction they should give staff.

        Manager Sloan stated that if there was support for a scenario for a policy change and that
        applicant will proceed with that.

        Councilman Blumberg stated he thought that if this proposal was discussed at a Ravinia
        association meeting. He thought they would have someone here to comment on it.

        Mr. Klairmont stated he had presented this to the Ravinia Neighbors board members but
        not yet at a meeting.

        Commissioner Reinstein asked if they had any comments on the height of the building.

        Mr. Klairmont stated it was a positive meeting with a small group.

V.      OTHER BUSINESS

     A. 2014 Meeting Resolution

        Manager Sloan stated the meeting schedule was the regular schedule with one exception
        in April with back to back meetings on the first and second Tuesdays.

                                Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                      Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                               11 of 12
         Commissioner Reinstein stated April 1st will fall on spring break.

         Manager Sloan stated they could have an early quorum call for that date.

         Commissioner Reinstein motioned to recommend adoption of the 2014 meeting schedule
         to City Council; the motion was seconded by Commissioner Kaplan. On a voice vote,
         the motion carried unanimously.

      B. Next Regular Meeting - November 5, 2013.

      C. Case Briefing.
         Manager Sloan stated that there was no briefing.

VI.      BUSINESS FROM THE PUBLIC

         There was none.

VII.     ADJOURNMENT

         Vice Chair Stolberg entertained a motion to adjourn. Commissioner Bilotti so motioned,
         which was seconded by Commissioner Kaplan. On a voice vote, the motion passed
         unanimously.

         The Plan Commission adjourned at 10:45 PM.


Respectfully submitted,
Joel Fontane, Secretary




                                 Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                       Tuesday, October 15, 2013
                                                12 of 12
                  REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

DATE REFERRED:                      November 5, 2013

ORIGINATED BY:                      Department of Community Development

SUBJECT:          Consideration of Staff-Drafted Findings of Fact that Recommend to the City
                  Council the Approval of a Proposed Conditional Use of a Sports Training Facility at
                  3570 Western Avenue as heard in Public Hearing #13-10-SUP-004

BACKGROUND & SUMMARY:

Property Owner:            Stand Sure, Western LLC

Applicant:                 Lucy Falcon, Owner &
                           Operator of Warehouse
                           Gym & Boxing Club

Site Location:             3570 Western Avenue

Planning District:         North Central District

Zoning District:           B1 - Neighborhood
                           Commercial

Current Use:               Sports Training School
                           (Previously vacant retail
                           space)

Proposed Uses:             Sports Training School

Project Description: The owners and operators of the Highland Park business, the Warehouse Gym &
                     Boxing Club, have relocated from 1660 Old Skokie Valley Road to the subject
                     property. The business will serve approximately 50 adult members, groups of
                     children, and children with special needs during pre-scheduled business hours.
                     The Applicants will be making no changes to the existing site plan; interior
                     alterations have been completed to convert the building from a retail hardware
                     store into a sports training school and gymnasium.

Site Area:                 Approximately 12,056.50 Square Feet

Process Required:          1) Public Hearing for a Special Use Permit
                           2) Forward recommendation as Finding of Fact to City Council
                           3) Ordinance from the City Council

BACKGROUND
  · At the October 15, 2013 Plan Commission meeting the above referenced public hearing was
    opened and staff presented a proposal to establish a Conditional Use of a Sports Training Facility
    on the Subject Property at 3570 Western Avenue. Following public testimony and Commission
    discussion, the Commission voted (5-0) to direct staff to draft findings of fact recommending
    approval for Commission's consideration at the next scheduled hearing.



k:\plan commission 2013\13-10-sup-004 3570 western\11-5-2013 plan commission\11-05-2013 rfpca 3570 western ave -
conditional use - finding of fact.docx
                                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
                  REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

    ·    In August of 2013, the Applicants, the owners of the Warehouse Gym & Boxing Club, applied
         for a Letter of Intent to occupy the space at 3570 Western Avenue to relocate their business from
         1660 Old Skokie Valley Road. On August 20, 2013 the Building Division replied to the
         Applicants with a letter stating that they were in compliance with all building codes, however, the
         use proposed (active at the time of application) was a Conditional Use within the B1 zoning
         district and in violation for operating without this approval. The applicants were issued a
         Conditional Occupancy which expires in December 1, 2013. By this time, the operator of the
         business must complete the Conditional Use review process.

         The Warehouse Gym & Boxing Club is considered a "Sports Training School." The Zoning Code
         defines a sports training school as follows:

         SPORTS TRAINING SCHOOL: A facility designed principally for the commercial indoor
         instruction of athletic activities and skills involved in the performance of team and individual
         sports, including, without limitation, archery, boxing, cycling, golf, martial arts, running,
         swimming, and tennis. "Sports Training School" does not include facilities that provide
         instruction in, or that offer the opportunity to train in, engage in, or practice, in any manner and
         for any purpose, the firing or discharge of any firearm. (Ord. 78-13, J. 30, p. 232-237, passed
         07/22/13)


RECOMMENDATION:
The Department of Community Development recommends that the Plan Commission review the Staff
Drafted Findings of Fact in relation to the request to establish a Special Use Permit for a Sports Training
Facility on the Subject Property at 3570 Western Avenue.


DOCUMENTS ATTACHED:
   Draft Findings of Fact




k:\plan commission 2013\13-10-sup-004 3570 western\11-5-2013 plan commission\11-05-2013 rfpca 3570 western ave -
conditional use - finding of fact.docx
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
                                           Findings of Fact

                                    #13-10-SUP-004
                    Warehouse Gym & Boxing Club - 3570 Western Avenue

At a public hearing of the City of Highland Park Plan Commission on October 15th, 2013 the
Commission voted (5-0) to support the request from the applicants, Albert & Lucy Falcon,
Owners & Operator of Warehouse Gym & Boxing Club, to Establish a Conditional Use of a
Sports Training School on the Subject Property at 3570 Western Avenue and directed staff to
draft Findings of Fact that recommend approval of the request.


150.1404 (A) Standards.
The Plan Commission or the City Council, as the case may be, shall not recommend or grant a
special use permit be issued unless it shall make findings of fact based upon evidence presented
at the hearing in any given case that:
     (1) The special use will serve the public convenience at the location of the subject property;
         or the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use will not be detrimental
         to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the operation of a Sports Training School is
       compatible with the zoning district in which it is located and the surrounding land uses
       and therefore will not be detrimental to or endanger public health, safety, morals,
       comfort, or general welfare, and will serve the public convenience at the location of the
       subject property.

   (2) The location and size of the special use, the nature and intensity of the operation involved
       in or conducted in connection with the special use, the size of the subject property in
       relation to such special use, and the location of the site with respect to streets giving
       access to it, shall be such that it will be in harmony with the appropriate, orderly
       development of the zoning district in which it is located;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the proposed Conditional Use is appropriate
       for the location in terms of the nature and intensity of the operation, the size of the
       subject property in relation to a Sports Training School serving 50 adults and children,
       and the existing site access and parking. The existing building with 12 parking spaces is
       in harmony with the development of the B1- Neighborhood Commercial zoning district
       in which it is located.

   (3) That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in
       the immediate vicinity of the subject property for the purposes already permitted in such
       zoning district, nor substantially diminish and impair the value of other property in the
       neighborhood;



                                  Findings of Fact ­ #13-10-SUP-004
                                               Page 1 of 3

k:\plan commission 2013\13-10-sup-004 3570 western\11-5-2013 plan commission\3570 western ave - conditional
                                        use - findings of fact.docx
       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the proposed Conditional Use that is to be
       located in an existing building will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
       property in the immediate vicinity of the subject property for the purposes already
       permitted in such zoning district, nor substantially diminishes or impairs the value of
       other property in the neighborhood.

   (4) The nature, location, and size of the buildings or structures involved with the
       establishment of the special use will not impede, substantially hinder, or discourage the
       development and use of adjacent land and buildings in accord with the regulations of the
       zoning district within which they are located;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the reuse of the existing building for the
       proposed Conditional Use will not impede, substantially hinder, or discourage the
       development and use of adjacent land and buildings.

   (5) Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary facilities have been or will
       be provided;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and
       other necessary facilities have been provided to existing building, and will continue to
       serve the proposed Conditional Use with no necessary increase in capacity.

   (6) Parking areas of adequate size for the special use shall be properly located and suitably
       screened from adjoining residential uses, and the entrance and exit driveways to and from
       these parking areas shall be designed to prevent traffic hazards, eliminate nuisance, and
       minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the parking areas are of adequate size for the
       Conditional Use and its operation with the number of employees and customers as
       indicated in the application for Conditional/Special Use; and, is properly located and
       suitably screened from adjoining residential uses.

   (7) The special use shall in all other respects conform to the applicable regulations of the
       zoning district in which it is located, except as such regulations may, in each instance, be
       modified as provided in this Chapter;

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the proposed Conditional Use in all other
       respects conforms to the applicable regulations of the zoning district in which it is
       located.

   (8) There is reasonable assurance that the special use will be completed and maintained as
       and if authorized; and




                                  Findings of Fact ­ #13-10-SUP-004
                                               Page 2 of 3

k:\plan commission 2013\13-10-sup-004 3570 western\11-5-2013 plan commission\3570 western ave - conditional
                                        use - findings of fact.docx
       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the proposed Conditional Use reasonable
       assurance that the special use will be completed and maintained as and if authorized.

   (9) The special use shall comply with all applicable requirements set forth in this Chapter.

       Finding: The Plan Commission finds that the proposed Conditional Use complies with
       all applicable requirements set forth in this Chapter


Conclusion:
The application for a the Conditional Use of a `Sports Training School' known as the Warehouse
Gym and Boxing Club at 4570 Western Avenue meets all of the relevant standards above and
will not a be a detriment to the surrounding community; no additional conditions are
recommended for this proposed use. The Plan Commission supports approval this application
and forwards the above recommendation to the City Council.




                                  Findings of Fact ­ #13-10-SUP-004
                                               Page 3 of 3

k:\plan commission 2013\13-10-sup-004 3570 western\11-5-2013 plan commission\3570 western ave - conditional
                                        use - findings of fact.docx
MEMORANDUM
TO:          Plan Commission

FROM:        Andy Cross, Planner II

DATE:        November 5, 2013

RE:          Pre-Application Discussion of Proposed Amendments to the Planned
             Development for Crossroads Shopping Center to: Modify the Parking and
             Site Plan, Construct a 1400 Sq. Ft. Building Addition, and Grant an Exception
             to Section 150.408 to Allow the Use of Sale of Soft Drinks by Vending
             Machine Outside of a Building


Site Location:          Crossroads Shopping Center, 113-229 Skokie Valley Road

Project
Description:            Federal Realty, owners of the Crossroads Shopping Center, are
                        proposing to reconfigure the parking and site plan to add 11parking
                        spaces, add a 1,400 square foot building addition , and install two
                        outdoor beverage vending machines.

Process Required:       1) Article V, Section 150.545 (2) - Amendment to an Approved
                        Planned Development
                        2) Review processes as required by the Article V Section 150.530-
                        Design Review
Owner/Applicant:        Federal Realty Investment Trust
                        50 East Wynnewood Road
                        Wynnewood, PA 19096

Representative:         Hal Francke
                        Meltzer, Purtill & Stelle LLC
                        1515 East Woodfield Road
                        Schaumburg, IL 60173

Site Area:              14.3 acres

Planning District:      Skokie Highway Corridor District (south portion)

Zoning District:        B3 Highway Commercial

Off-Street                                          Currently
Parking:                         Use                                   Provided
                                                    Required
                         Various Commercial &                             694
                                                      735
                              Service Uses                      (41 spaces land banked )


                                                1
PROJECT SUMMARY
Crossroads Shopping Center was developed as a Planned Development with a
development agreement specifying the nature of the commercial activity on the site, a
specific plan of development (site plan), and physical improvements on the property.
Substantial Changes to the Development as described in Chapter 150, Section 150.454
require the adoption of an amendatory ordinance after a public hearing is held in the
manner as required for a new planned development.

Federal Realty has identified a need to reconfigure the parking lot near the middle of the
shopping center. Currently there is an outdoor dining area in front of the Old Chicago
Smoke Shop, Mizrahi Grill, and Hoffman Jewelers. The revised plan will eliminate
much of that area and decrease the angle of the sharp curve in the drive aisle in front of
these businesses. The reconfiguration will also add approximately eleven new parking
spaces in the parking lot.

Another change proposes a 1,400 square-foot addition to the shopping center. Plans
indicate that the addition will be on the front of the tenant space immediately south of
Party City. This change is part of a larger transformation to the north end of the center as
27,000 square feet of retail area is assembled for a grocery store use. This addition of
Floor Area will require modification of the façade and increase the floor area that is
counted in the determination of off-street required parking. The change in land use from
retail land uses to a grocery store use will also result in a higher off-street parking space
requirement than is presently required for the uses (various retail) that the grocery store
will replace.

The final part of the applicant's proposal is an amendment to the Planned Development to
allow two new outdoor soft drink vending machines. The machines constitute sales
outside of a building and will require relief from the City Code to remain at Crossroads
on a permanent basis.

Recent PUD Amendment:
The Crossroads Planned Unit Development was last amended in 2009 when LA Fitness
moved into the center. A minor amendment was approved to both clarify the center's
square footage (increase of 106 square feet) and establish a required parking quantity for
LA Fitness of 204 spaces (at peak hour) based on a plumbing code maximum capacity of
the facility of 618 persons. These changes met the standards for a Minor Amendment as
defined Article 5 of the Zoning Code. They were approved by the City Manager, ratified
by the City Council and did not require a public hearing process before the plan
commission.

POLICY:

A public hearing will be necessary to consider the Substantial Changes proposed for the
Crossroads Planned Unit Development. The Plan Commission is asked to provide
guidance to the applicant in the preparation of an application that will be considered at a
future public hearing. After the public hearing, the Plan Commission will make a
                                             2
   recommendation to the City Council upon making findings that the proposed
   amendments satisfy the standards set forth in Article V Sections 150.520 and 150.1404.




   ISSUES FOR PLAN COMMISSION CONSIDERATION:

   The following is a summary of preliminary staff-identified issues that the Plan
   Commission may wish to address:

       1) Parking & Traffic Analysis
          The parking requirements for Crossroads Shopping Center were established in
          Exhibit D2 in the 2009 PUD amendment related to LA Fitness. The exhibit is
          included as Figure 1:




Figure 1: 2009 Parking Requirement Calculations

           The tenant spaces highlighted in Figure 1 represent the 27,000 square feet of area
           proposed for conversion to a grocery store use. Ninety-one spaces in Crossroads'
           parking supply are required for the land uses presently occupying the spaces
           which are intended for future grocery store use.
                                                  3
   The applicants have provided a traffic and parking study that analyzes the
   anticipated impact of a 27,000-square foot grocery store and 7,000 square feet of
   new restaurant use. The study also examined the current levels of use in the
   Crossroads parking lot and measured vacancy and parking availability at peak
   times (see Exhibits 5A and 5B in the study). The study concludes that the
   existing parking capacity at the Shopping Center will be adequate for the
   proposed change in use.

   Grocery stores have a higher parking demand than general retail land uses. The
   conversion of 27,000 square feet of retail uses to a grocery store use will trigger
   an increase in the parking requirement at Crossroads of 20 spaces. The
   conversion of 7,000 square feet of retail space to a restaurant use increases the
   parking requirement by approximately 80 spaces. It's worth noting that these
   parking estimates do not exempt certain portions of the buildings that would not
   count towards parking requirements, such as storage areas and restrooms.

2) Site Plan
   Modifications to the site plan include the following:
       · decreasing the common open space/ outdoor seating area in front of
           Mizrahi Grill and the Smoke Shop
       · reducing the sharp turn in the drive aisle in front of those stores
       · adding a bump-out on the west property line to slow traffic in that drive
           aisle
       · converting the interior drive aisles from one-way angled parking to two-
           way 90-degree parking
       · addition of 11 parking spaces

   The 90-degree parking stalls require a 25'8" drive aisle between them, which is
   wider than the 20' aisle required for the existing one-way angled parking. The
   plan proposes 25'5" drive aisles. These are three inches narrower than required
   by Code.

   The site plan identifies two areas set aside as "cart corrals" for the collection of
   shopping carts in the parking lot. With the anticipated addition of the grocery
   user, the cart corrals will be important, but occupy a total of four parking spaces.

3) Outdoor Sales
   Article 4 of the Zoning Code prohibits outdoor sales, but relief can be granted
   through the PUD process. Relief for permanent outdoor sales areas, although the
   areas were deemed "accessory sales" have been authorized through the planned
   development process at Thornton's Gas and similarly requested for Bucky's gas
   station and convenience store.

   The use at Crossroads is not an accessory use, since the machines are not
   associated with any occupying principal use, but through the Planned
   Development Process relief may be granted for the requested two outdoor

                                        4
      vending machines. The relief can be granted by a specific square footage, as it
      was for the gas stations, as well as for a specific number of vending machines.

   4) Refuse Collection
      Crossroads Shopping Center uses the private alleyway at the east edge of the
      center's property for garbage removal. Individual roll-off dumpsters serving each
      of the tenants are kept behind the building. A new 27,000 square foot grocery
      store may generate more refuse than the existing tenants, so the Commission may
      wish to discuss how garbage removal will be facilitated for this specific use and
      for refuse consolidation of multiple tenants. The nuisance characteristics
      associated with refuse collection should be considered. These might include
      management of perishable food refuse; recycling separation; container screening;
      and traffic, delivery, and fire lane conflict.

   5) Police & Fire Input
      Members of the Police and Fire Departments have reviewed Crossroads' proposed
      site plan and shared the following concerns:
          · The seating area outside Mizrahi Grill has been reduced in size and is
              closer to the drive aisle. If the intent is to continue outdoor dining in this
              area, then some type of protection for the patrons should be installed
              (bollards, planters, etc.).
          · Aisle widths and dimensions need to be added to verify adequate turning
              radii for fire and emergency apparatus, especially in the winter if snow
              isn't plowed curb-to-curb in the drive aisle.

   6) Building Addition
      The revised site plan identifies a 1,400 square foot addition on the Crossroads
      Shopping Center. There is no indication of the height of the addition, or whether
      it is intended as an open-air addition or an enclosed structure. Its design and
      intended use will be important for determining whether the addition will be
      counted toward the parking requirement for the grocery store.

      Exterior alterations to Crossroads will require approval from the Design Review
      Commission. However, the applicants have indicated a preference for pursuing
      Design Review approval after receiving zoning entitlement for the improvements
      so as to maintain tenant confidentiality. Staff has requested that the applicant
      provide enough information about the addition to allow the determination of
      associated parking impacts and give the Plan Commission and City Council a
      clear idea of the bulk and massing of the new structure. It is possible that Design
      Review may be requested as a condition of the preliminary approval, instead of a
      prerequisite for preliminary approval.

RECOMMENDATION:

The Department of Community Development recommends that the Plan Commission
consider the pre-application submittal and give direction to the applicant for the
preparation of a public hearing application.

                                            5
ATTACHMENTS:

  ·   Aerial Photo of Crossroads Property
  ·   Site Plan, Existing and Proposed
  ·   Vending Machine Exhibit
  ·   Plat of Survey
  ·   Parking and Traffic Analysis




                                            6
TEL 847.478.9700   FAX 847.478.9701
TEL 847.478.9700   FAX 847.478.9701
TRAFFIC IMPACT & PARKING STUDY
To:         Mr. Brian Donley
            Federal Realty Investment Trust

From:       Daniel P. Brinkman, P.E., PTOE
            Amanda L. Larson, P.E.I.

Date:       October 24, 2013

Subject: Proposed Planned Development Amendment
         Crossroads Shopping Center
         Highland Park, IL


                                 PART I INTRODUCTION & SUMMARY STATEMENT

GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. (GHA) has reviewed the potential traffic and parking impacts for the above
referenced project. Federal Realty Investment Trust (FRIT) is requesting an amendment for the existing Planned
Development at Crossroads Shopping Center which will permit an expansion of ±1,440 square feet which will assist
in locating an approximately 28,000 sq ft grocery store near the north end of the center. Furthermore, as part of the
Amendment process, FRIT is seeking the ability to convert approximately 7,000 square feet of current retail space
to restaurant space.

The following analysis flows from a review of the existing conditions through the proposed plan while highlighting
our approach, methodology, and findings, ultimately providing various recommendations for your consideration.
Briefly summarizing, the additional traffic generated by the proposed commercial development can be readily
accommodated by the existing area roadways.

Exhibits and Appendices referenced in the following text are conveniently located in the Technical Addendum at the
end of this document.

                                      PART II BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Site Location Map and Photo Inventory

      Exhibit 1 provides a location map of the site vicinity and Exhibit 2 provides photo inventory of operations at the
      subject site. Pertinent comments include:

          The subject site is located along the east side of Skokie Valley Road, north of Lake Cook Road and
          adjacent to US 41 (Eden's Expressway) in the City of Highland Park.
          US 41 is classified as a principal arterial along the site frontage under the jurisdiction of the Illinois
          Department of Transportation (IDOT).
          Along the subject site, Skokie Valley Road is classified as a major collector under the jurisdiction of the City
          of Highland Park.
                                                                            Proposed Planned Development Amendment
                                                                                          Crossroads Shopping Center
                                                                                                    Highland Park, IL

        Skokie Valley Road provides two travel lanes in each direction with left turn lanes at all three site
        driveways. The northern and center drive provide separate left and right turn lanes exiting the site, while
        only a single exit lane exists at the southern most drive.

Existing Traffic

    Exhibit 3 summarizes the existing Weekday Morning and Evening, as well as Saturday Peak Hour traffic
    volumes in the site vicinity. Weekday (6-9 AM and 3-6 PM) and Saturday (11 AM ­ 1 PM) Peak Period counts
    were conducted by GHA on Thursday, September 19th and Saturday, September 21st at the three access
    driveways along Skokie Valley Road.

    The observed Weekday Peak Hours occurred from 8:00 to 9:00 AM and 3:45 to 4:45 PM and the Saturday
    Peak Hour occurred from 12:00 noon to 1:00 PM.

    No unusual activities (e.g. emergency vehicle activity, roadway construction, etc) or inclement weather were
    observed during our counts that would be expected to impact traffic volumes or travel patterns in the vicinity.

    Summaries of the existing traffic counts can be found in Appendix I.

Existing Parking Counts

    In addition to the traffic data collected at the access driveways, GHA conducted hourly parking occupancy
    counts on Saturday September 7th from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM and on Wednesday September 11th from 7:00 AM
    to 7:00 PM. The center was divided into three separate zones for the purpose of our data collection. (See
    Exhibit 4).

    Exhibits 5A&B tabulate the results from the Saturday and Wednesday parking counts, respectively. As can be
    seen, each hour and Zone is color coded to help illustrate the current utilization of parking.

    Saturday observations identify that Zones 1 and 2 experienced some time periods that have an occupancy of
    61-85%, with only four hours having an overall occupancy of 61-85%. During the 3:00 PM hour, the nine
    handicap spaces in Zone 1 were 100% occupied. Otherwise, each hour and Zone was less than 61% occupied
    during our observation period.

    Weekday observations again illustrate that Zones 1 and 2 experienced some hours where parking was 61-85%
    occupied, with only three hours having an overall occupancy of 61-85%. In Zone 3, during the 2:00 PM and
    5:00 PM hours both handicap spaces were occupied.

    Overall, it seems that there is a more than adequate parking supply for the current tenants of the building.

                                        PART III PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT

Site Plan

    Appendix II provides the Preliminary Site Plan for the Crossroads Shopping Center. As previously noted, FRIT
    proposes a small (±1,440 sq ft) addition near the north end of the center and anticipates occupying the
    reconfigured space with an approximately 28,000 sq ft grocery tenant. Furthermore, modifications to the Zone 2
    parking lot and circulation aisles are planned, which will result in a slight increase in parking supply.
                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. ­ Page 2
                                                                             Proposed Planned Development Amendment
                                                                                           Crossroads Shopping Center
                                                                                                     Highland Park, IL

   While not illustrated on the plan, the proposed Amendment is also requesting the ability to replace
   approximately 7,000 sq ft of "dry" retail spaces with additional restaurant space.

Project Traffic Characteristics

   Exhibit 6 ­ Part A tabulates the anticipated traffic generations for the proposed development amendment based
   on trip rate data published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in the most recent, 9th Edition of
   the manual Trip Generation. Utilizing the Supermarket (Land Use #850) and High-Turnover (Sit-down)
   Restaurant (LU #932) for the proposed grocer and infill restaurant space, the development is expected to
   generate approximately 170 trips (combined entering and exiting), 375 trips, and 530 trips during the Weekday
   Morning, Evening, and Saturday Peak Hours, respectively. Note that traffic generated by the existing uses has
   not been removed from our September counts. As such, we believe that we have made an effort to analyze the
   maximum traffic impacts of the proposed grocer and future restaurant space.

   Exhibit 6 ­ Part B provides the anticipated trip distribution for the additional traffic, which is primarily based on
   the existing traffic volumes and patterns observed by the existing Crossroads Shopping Center patrons. As can
   be seen, it is anticipated that a slightly higher percentage of traffic will arrive from the south, but will depart to
   the north and south more equally. Ultimately, trip distribution will be a function of a variety of factors, including
   competing and complementary shopping / dining opportunities, access system and efficiency, as well as
   ultimately where patrons and employees live.

Traffic Assignments

   Exhibit 7 illustrates the anticipated site traffic volumes generated by the proposed grocery store and restaurant
   spaces which have been assigned to the area roadway network based on the project's traffic characteristics as
   discussed above and summarized in Exhibit 6 (i.e. traffic generations and trip distribution) and the site access
   system.

   Site traffic and Existing traffic (see Exhibits 7 and 3) were combined to produce the Total Traffic, which is
   illustrated in Exhibit 8.
                                                PART IV EVALUATION

Intersection Capacity Analyses

   Capacity Analyses were conducted at the intersections within the study area. The analysis parameters utilized
   are listed in Part A, as published in the Transportation research Board's (TRB) 2010 Highway Capacity Manual
   (HCM). At signalized intersections, Level of Service (LOS) "reports" traffic operations using the letter
   designations "A" (best) through "F" (worst) and measures the "control delay" per vehicle in seconds. LOS C is
   often referred to as intersection "design" guideline and LOS D is usually considered as providing the lower
   threshold of "acceptable" operations. LOS E and F are usually considered "unacceptable".

   At unsignalized intersections, the HCM methodology reports the results differently for Two-Way Stop Controlled
   (TWSC) or All-Way Stop Controlled (AWSC) intersections. For TWSC intersections, LOS is reported for
   conflicting movements on the major street (i.e. left turns onto the minor approach) and for each movement on
   the stopped approach. Approach "control delay" is also reported in seconds per vehicle. Results of AWSC
   analyses are slightly different. LOS is reported for each stopped approach as well as an average overall
   intersection "control delay" in seconds per vehicle. LOS C and D continue to be considered "design" and
   "acceptable" operations respectively.
                                                                       GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. ­ Page 3
                                                                             Proposed Planned Development Amendment
                                                                                           Crossroads Shopping Center
                                                                                                     Highland Park, IL

    Exhibit 9 Part B. summarizes the intersection capacity analysis results for the Weekday Morning, Evening, and
    Saturday Midday Peak Hours. As can be seen, the additional traffic generated by the grocery store and
    restaurant developments will result in increased delays for vehicles exiting the center, primarily the additional
    left turns. However, the majority of individual movements and overall approach operations will continue to
    operate at or above the acceptable range. The Saturday Peak Hour is expected to be impacted the most,
    particularly the center and south drives which will experience longer than desirable delays.

    Even though the calculated delays for traffic exiting the shopping center are considered "unacceptable", this
    level of delay is common at TWSC intersections on a four lane roadways. Vehicles wishing to make a left hand
    turn out of the driveways have to wait longer to find an available gap in both northbound and southbound traffic.
    As the through volumes increase, the amount of available gaps decreases, thus causing the vehicle to wait
    longer.

    Both the north and center drive will provide separate right and left or left-through lanes for exiting traffic. This
    configuration allows right turning vehicles to enter traffic without being delayed by those waiting to make left
    turns. The anticipated queues (or stacking) of vehicles for those movements expected to operate at LOS E or F
    was calculated and provided in Exhibit 9. As can be seen, the weekday queues can generally be
    accommodated without issues, some of the longer queues on Saturday afternoons have potential to extend into
    the parking circulation areas.

    The Highway Capacity Software (HCS) summary printouts are provided as Appendix III for reference.

                                 PART V RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS

Traffic Operations
Exhibit 10 schematically illustrates the traffic recommendations to accommodate the additional traffic associated
with the grocery store and restaurant addition. Key components include:

        The center drive should be striped to provide a separate left and right turn lane
        The parking lot should be reconfigured as shown in the site plan (see Appendix II) to provide additional
        parking spaces and a more efficient layout for traffic.

Parking Calculations

    A shared parking analysis was completed for the existing operations with the addition of the restaurant and
    grocery store.

    Under the City's Zoning Ordinance different sizes and types of retail uses require different parking standards.
    The proposed grocery store and restaurant use have higher requirements (4.0 and 15.0 spaces per 1,000
    square feet, respectively) than the current retail tenant requirement of 3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet.

    As previously noted and discussed, GHA conducted hourly parking occupancy counts at the Shopping Center
    on both a Weekday and a Saturday. Exhibit 11 provides the shared parking calculations for the proposed
    development components.

    As planned, including a 1,440 sq ft addition, a grocery user is proposed to occupy approximately 28,000 square
    feet of space. Using the requirement of the Zoning Ordinance, 111 spaces would be required, a net increase of
    almost 20 spaces over the current parking requirements. Similarly, converting approximately 7,000 sq ft of retail
                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. ­ Page 4
                                                                           Proposed Planned Development Amendment
                                                                                         Crossroads Shopping Center
                                                                                                   Highland Park, IL

    space (using a 3.3 parking spaces / 1,000 sq ft requirement) to restaurant use (using a 15 parking space per
    1,000 sq ft requirement) would require an additional 79 spaces. The current parking supply at Crossroads
    cannot be expanded to meet this requirement. However, the City accepts the concept of shared parking,
    acknowledging that not all uses experience their peak demand at the same time of the day.

    Using hourly distribution of parking demands for the proposed uses and estimating the split of City required
    spaces for the uses into employee and customer requirements based on data published by the ENO
    Foundation for parking, GHA generated hourly parking demands for the proposed grocer and restaurant use.

    As can be seen, the grocery use is expected to have a demand of 112 spaces during the 6:00 pm hour on a
    weekday and the restaurant uses are expected to have a demand of 96 spaces at that 6:00 pm hour. When
    these "new" demands are considered with the observed demand at 6:00 pm of 457 spaces, we can see that
    there are expected to be 34 vacant spaces left in the center. If one considers the previously approved land
    banked spaces north of the Chase Bank site, 75 vacant spaces would remain available.

    The same calculation for the observed Saturday Peak of 11:00 am results in 29 and 70 spaces, respectively
    remaining available.

    The proposed parking supply of 699 spaces (not including the land banked spaces) is sufficient for the
    proposed tenant mix for a variety of reasons, including:

        We have not removed the current tenant parking demands from our observed peaks
        The parking calculations are based on Gross Floor Area without the discounts for storage or stock space,
        restrooms and mechanical space, and kitchen spaces as permitted in the City's definition of GROSS
        FLOOR AREA in Section 150.202 of the Zoning Ordinance
        Both ITE and ENO foundation would suggest lower parking demands for both grocery and restaurant uses
        While the center is currently approximately 94% leased, the peak observed demand of 462 spaces is less
        than 75% of the parking currently required by Ordinance for the center.

    Detailed hourly parking demand calculations are attached in tables 4.1 and 4.2 found in Appendix IV.

Conclusion

Based on our observations and analyses we feel that while delays will increase beyond the current situation at the
center and south driveway, the existing roadway network can accommodate the additional traffic generated by the
addition of the grocery store and future restaurant tenants to the Crossroads Shopping Center. Furthermore, based
on our shared parking analysis, it is our finding that the proposed parking supply is more than sufficient to meet the
demand associated with the proposed grocery store and restaurant additions.




                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. ­ Page 5
                                                                         Proposed Planned Development Amendment
                                                                                       Crossroads Shopping Center
                                                                                                 Highland Park, IL

                                          PART VI TECHNICAL ADDENDUM

The following Exhibits were previously referenced. They provide technical support for our observations, findings,
and recommendations discussed in the text.

                         Exhibits
                            1.      Site Location Map
                            2.      Photo Inventory
                            3.      Existing Traffic
                            4.      Parking Zone Map
                            5.      Existing Parking Summaries
                            6.      Project Traffic Characteristics
                            7.      Site Traffic
                            8.      Total Traffic
                            9.      Intersection Capacity Analyses
                            10.     Traffic Operations Plan
                            11.     Shared Parking Analysis Summary

                         Appendices
                              I. Traffic Count Summaries
                             II. Site Plan
                            III. Highway Capacity Software Summary Worksheets
                            IV. Hourly Shared Parking calculations


4783.000 FRIT Crossroads PUD Amendment TIS 102413.doc




                                                                      GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. ­ Page 6
TECHNICAL ADDENDUM
Proposed Planned Development Amendment ­ Crossroads Shopping Center; Highland Park, IL
                                                                        Exhibit 1
                                                                        Location Map
Looking west along the center driveway toward Skokie Valley Road   Looking east at planned building expansion location




   Looking north along Crossroads Shopping Center Frontage              Looking north along Skokie Valley Road

                                                                                                          Exhibit 2
                                                                                                          Photo Inventory
Not to Scale
              Zone 3




                       Zone 2




                                        Zone 1




Parking Zones ­ Crossroads Shopping Center; Highland Park, IL
                                                           Exhibit 4
                                                           Parking Zones
                                                           Exhibit 5A - Parking Counts
                                                Crossroads Shopping Center - Highland Park, Illinois
                                                                8:00 AM - 8:00 PM
                                                           Saturday, September 7, 2013




                                                              Parking Supply
Parking Area




                                                                                                                  10:00 AM

                                                                                                                             11:00 AM


                                                                                                                                        12:00 PM
    See




                                                                                    8:00 AM


                                                                                                   9:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                   1:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                             2:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                       3:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                 4:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                           5:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                     6:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                7:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8:00 PM
                   Parking Area Description
  Exhibit 4
  for Map


                                                   Regular    402              158            254            282             293        250        232       224       267       230       187       132       115        49
               Southeast portion of the lot from
  Zone 1
                   Center driveway to end
                                                   Handicap     9               1              3              4               4          7          5         7         9         7         7         4          3         1

                                                   Regular    241              73             78             135             173        166        179       162       116       79        91        66        43         35
                From north driveway to center
  Zone 2
                          driveway
                                                   Handicap   10                0              4              4               6          6          6         6         4         4         5         2          2         0

                                                   Regular    28                5              6              8              16         10         11         9         1         3         2         0          0         0
  Zone 3               Chase Bank Lot
                                                   Handicap     2               0              0              1               0          0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0

  Totals                                                      692              237            345            434             492        439        433       408       397       323       292       204       163        85


                             Key                                               100%-86% Occupied                                                   85%-61% Occupied                                   60%-0% Occupied
                                                           Exhibit 5B - Parking Counts
                                                Crossroads Shopping Center - Highland Park, Illinois
                                                               7:00 AM - 7:00 PM
                                                         Wednesday, September 11, 2013




                                                              Parking Supply
Parking Area




                                                                                                                                 10:00 AM

                                                                                                                                            11:00 AM


                                                                                                                                                       12:00 PM
    See




                                                                                    7:00 AM


                                                                                                   8:00 AM


                                                                                                                  9:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                  1:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                            2:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                      3:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                4:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                          5:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6:00 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7:00 PM
                  Parking Area Description
  Exhibit 4
  for Map


                                                   Regular    402              153            136            277            281             220        197        202       195       193       203       308       338       330
               Southeast portion of the lot from
  Zone 1
                   Center driveway to end
                                                   Handicap     9               2              5              4              6               7          7          3         4         3         4         4         1         1

                                                   Regular    241              25             46             97             106             121        155        147       122       102       92        101       113       100
                From north driveway to center
  Zone 2
                          driveway
                                                   Handicap   10                3              1              4              1               5          4          4         5         1         1         4         3         1

                                                   Regular    28                2              2              9             10              11          8         12         8         9         8         5         2         0
  Zone 3               Chase Bank Lot
                                                   Handicap     2               0              0              1              0               0          0          1         2         1         0         2         0         0

  Totals                                                      692              185            190            392            404             364        371        369       336       309       308       424       457       432


                             Key                                               100%-86% Occupied                                                       85%-61% Occupied                                   60%-0% Occupied
                                                                  Exhibit 6
                                                    Project Traffic Characteristics
                        Proposed Planned Development Amendment - Crossroads Shopping Center - Highland Park, Illinois

Part A. Traffic Generation Calculations
                                ITE                     Morning Peak Hour              Evening Peak Hour            Saturday Peak Hour
                               Code       Units         In     Out    Sum              In     Out    Sum            In     Out     Sum

Existing Crossroads Development
 Shopping Center           #820          181,340        270      135       405        410      375       785        580      595   1,175

Proposed Additions
 Grocery Store                 #850     27,855 sf       60        35          95      155      150       305        220      215    435
 Restaurant                    #932      6,729 sf       40        35          75       45       25        70            50   45     95

                 Total New Trips =                      100       70       170        200      175       375        270      260    530
                       Total Trips =                    370      205       575        610      550      1,160       850      855   1,705

  Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual; 9th Edition

Part B. Trip Distribution
                                                                       Percent Use by Route
    Route & Direction                                         Arrive From                Depart To
 Skokie Valley Road
   - North of Crossroads Center                                   40%                          50%
   - South of Crossroads Center                                   60%                          50%
                                           Totals =              100%                         100%
Not to Scale
Not to Scale
                                                                  Exhibit 9
                                              Intersection Capacity Analyses
                        Proposed Planned Development Amendment - Crossroads Shopping Center - Highland Park, Illinois

Part A. Parameters - Type of Traffic Control                         (Source: 2010 Highway Capacity Manual)
 I. Traffic Signals                                                                                                    II. Stop Sign

 LOS Delay (sec / veh)             Description                                                                         LOS            Delay (sec / veh)
  A          10                    All signal phases clear waiting vehicles without delay                               A                  10
  B     >10 and  20                Minimal delay experienced on select signal phases                                    B              >10 and  15
  C     >20 and  35                Some delay experienced on several phases; often used as design criteria              C              >15 and  25
  D     >35 and  55                Usually considered as the acceptable delay standard                                  D              >25 and  35
  E     >55 and  80                Very long delays experienced during the peak hours                                   E              >35 and  50
  F          >80                   Unacceptable delays experienced throughout the peak hours                            F                  >50


Part B. Results                                                                    LOS Per Movement By Approach
                                                                                                 > = Shared Lane                          Intersection /
                                                                                   - = Non Critical or not Allowed Movement                 Approach
                                                      Roadway             TRT - Shared Through/Right lane (with an additonal Through
                                                     Conditions                                        lane)

                                                                           Eastbound        Westbound    Northbound    Southbound          Delay
                                                                          LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT                            (sec / veh)   LOS
                                                    TWSC (EB/WB
 1. Skokie Valley @ North Drive                       Stops)                                                                             Approach Delay

 A. Weekday Morning Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   B    <    C      -    A   A    -    -   A     -    -        14.4        B

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                         · Current         >   C    <    C      -    B   A    -    -   A     -    -        15.1        C

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   C    <    D      -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        17.0        C

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                         · Current         >   C    <    D      -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        19.5        C

 C. Saturday Midday Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   C    <    D      -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        18.1        C

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                        · Current       >      C    <       F   -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        30.0        D
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                     3

                                                    TWSC (EB/WB
 2. Skokie Valley @ Center Drive                      Stops)                                                                             Approach Delay

 A. Weekday Morning Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   B    <    B      -    A   A    -    -   A     -    -        13.5        B

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                         · Current         >   B    <    C      -    A   A    -    -   A     -    -        14.5        B

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   B    <    D      -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        19.4        C

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                        · Current       >      B    <       F   -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        33.9        D
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                     4

 C. Saturday Midday Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                     · Current       >      C    <    E      -    B   A    -    -   B     -    -        30.6        D
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                  4

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                        · Current       >      E    <    F      -    C   A    -    -   B     -    -        163.3       F
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):        1         15

                                                    TWSC (EB/WB
 3. Skokie Valley @ South Drive                       Stops)                                                                           WB Approach Delay

 A. Weekday Morning Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   B    <       >   C    <   A    -    -   A     -    -        15.5        C

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                         · Current         >   B    <       >   C    <   A    -    -   A     -    -        16.9        C

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      · Current         >   B    <       >   D    <   A    -    -   B     -    -        31.8        D

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                        · Current       >      C    <       >   E    <   A    -    -   B     -    -        46.5        E
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                         4

 C. Saturday Midday Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                     · Current       >      C    <       >   F    <   B    -    -   B     -    -        94.4        F
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                         7

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                        · Current       >      C    <       >   F    <   B    -    -   B     -    -        181.2       F
                                      95th Percentile Queue (vehicles):                         11
                                                                          Exhibit 11
                                              SHARED PARKING ANALYSIS SUMMARY
                      Proposed Planned Development Amendment - Crossroads Shopping Center - Highland Park, IL

Proposed Use/Size:
  Grocery - 27,855 SF
  Restaurant - 6,729 SF                 No current proposal - just seeking allowable space in PD



Peak Shared Parking Demand Calculations:

                                                                                              2
                                                                 Weekday Peak Demand                                 Saturday Peak Demand3
                                                          Customer/                                           Customer/
                                                                      Employee       Total                                 Employee       Total
  Land Use                                                 Visitor                                             Visitor

  Grocery 1                                                  84               28                  112              58                   28     86
               1
  Restaurant                                                 79               17                   96              75                   17     92

                                           Total             163              45                  208             133                   45     178


Parking Supply Adaquacy:

                                                                   Weekday                                               Saturday
                                                      As Planned         Incldues                            As Planned          Incldues
                                                      net increase     Additional 41                         net increase      Additional 41
                                                       13 spaces       landbanked                             13 spaces        landbanked
  Total Supply4                                             699              740                                  699               740
  Less observed peak demand                                 -457             -457                                 -492              -492
  Less new demand                                           -208             -208                                 -178              -178

                   Remaining Vacant Spaces                   34               75                                  29                70
                     Percent Vacant spaces                   5%              10%                                  4%                9%

Notes:
 1
     City Code requirement adjusted for customer / employee use ccording to Urban Land Institute (ULI) Shared Parking, Second Edition
 2
     The calculated weekday peak parking demand occured at 6:00 PM.
 3
     The calculated Saturday peak parking demand occurred at 11:00 AM.
 4The total supply as illustrated on proposed site plan
                   APPENDICES
  I.   Traffic Count Summaries
 II.   Site Plan
III.   Highway Capacity Software Summary Worksheets
IV.    Hourly Shared Parking calculations
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                   850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                      Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                           Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                        File Name       : Crossroads_N Weekday__128900_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ NORTH                                                                                         Site Code       :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                               Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                       Page No         :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                       SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CROSSROADS NORTH                            SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             FIELDS ACCESS
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    06:00 AM      1      43       0       0         44       1        0       2       0          3       0      13        1      0         14       0       0       0      0           0           61
    06:15 AM      3      40       0       0         43       0        0       2       0          2       0      18        4      0         22       0       0       0      0           0           67
    06:30 AM      4      68       1       0         73       0        0       0       0          0       1      35        0      0         36       0       0       0      0           0          109
    06:45 AM      2      66       1       0         69       0        0       1       0          1       0      57        1      0         58       1       0       0      0           1          129
        Total    10     217       2       0        229       1        0       5       0          6       1     123        6      0        130       1       0       0      0           1          366

    07:00 AM      3      85      1       0          89       1        0       0       0         1       0      53       1       0          54       0      0       1      0            1         145
    07:15 AM      9     109      0       0         118       3        0       2       0         5       0      51       2       0          53       0      0       0      0            0         176
    07:30 AM      2     115      2       0         119       0        0       0       0         0       1      68       2       0          71       0      0       0      0            0         190
    07:45 AM      8     151      1       0         160       2        0       3       0         5       2      81       2       0          85       0      0       0      0            0         250
        Total    22     460      4       0         486       6        0       5       0        11       3     253       7       0         263       0      0       1      0            1         761

    08:00 AM      9     146      0       0         155       1        0       1       0         2       3      87       2       0          92       0      0       0      0            0         249
    08:15 AM     13     173      1       0         187       3        0       1       0         4       2     109       0       0         111       0      0       0      0            0         302
    08:30 AM     14     157      0       0         171       6        0       6       0        12       2      81       5       0          88       0      0       0      0            0         271
    08:45 AM     11     186      1       0         198       3        0      11       0        14       1      85       7       0          93       0      0       0      0            0         305
        Total    47     662      2       0         711      13        0      19       0        32       8     362      14       0         384       0      0       0      0            0        1127



    03:00 PM     26     150      0       0         176      10        0      20       0        30       0     158       7       0         165       0      0       1      0            1         372
    03:15 PM     18     154      1       0         173       7        0      18       0        25       2     161      12       0         175       3      0       0      0            3         376
    03:30 PM     22     164      0       0         186       5        0      22       0        27       3     169       5       0         177       1      0       1      0            2         392
    03:45 PM     15     164      0       0         179       8        0      14       0        22       4     160      12       0         176       0      0       1      0            1         378
        Total    81     632      1       0         714      30        0      74       0       104       9     648      36       0         693       4      0       3      0            7        1518

    04:00 PM     23     142      1       0         166       5        0      25       0        30       2     214       9       0         225       0      0       0      0            0         421
    04:15 PM     23     152      0       0         175       5        0      28       1        34       2     213      10       0         225       1      0       1      0            2         436
    04:30 PM     23     132      1       0         156       4        0      17       3        24       0     225      15       0         240       1      0       3      0            4         424
    04:45 PM     25     139      0       0         164       6        0      18       0        24       3     173       3       0         179       0      0       1      0            1         368
        Total    94     565      2       0         661      20        0      88       4       112       7     825      37       0         869       2      0       5      0            7        1649

    05:00 PM     25     128      0       0         153       7        0      14       0        21       0     218       9       0         227       0      0       1      0            1         402
    05:15 PM     24     148      0       0         172       8        0      20       0        28       0     226      10       0         236       1      0       1      0            2         438
    05:30 PM     14     147      1       0         162      10        0      25       0        35       2     197       8       0         207       0      0       0      0            0         404
    05:45 PM     31     141      2       0         174       8        0      15       0        23       2     173       6       0         181       3      0       0      0            3         381
        Total    94     564      3       0         661      33        0      74       0       107       4     814      33       0         851       4      0       2      0            6        1625

  Grand Total    348   3100     14       0        3462      103       0     265       4       372      32    3025     133       0        3190      11      0      11      0           22        7046
   Apprch %     10.1   89.5    0.4       0                 27.7       0    71.2     1.1                 1    94.8     4.2       0                  50      0      50      0
     Total %     4.9     44    0.2       0        49.1      1.5       0     3.8     0.1       5.3     0.5    42.9     1.9       0        45.3     0.2      0     0.2      0         0.3
         Car     343   3042     14       0        3399      102       0     261       0       363      32    2968     126       0        3126      11      0      11      0          22         6910
       % Car    98.6   98.1    100       0        98.2       99       0    98.5       0      97.6     100    98.1    94.7       0          98     100      0     100      0         100         98.1
                                                                     Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                            850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                               Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                    Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                  File Name       : Crossroads_N Weekday__128900_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ NORTH                                                                                                   Site Code       :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                         Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                 Page No         :2
                                                                                    Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                              SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             CROSSROADS NORTH                            SKOKIE VALLEY RD                              FIELDS ACCESS
                                   Southbound                                    Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
                      Left    Thru   Right   Peds      App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
        Medium           5      48       0      0             53      1        0       4       0          5       0      43         6      0          49      0       0       0      0           0          107
      % Medium         1.4     1.5       0      0            1.5      1        0     1.5       0        1.3       0     1.4       4.5      0         1.5      0       0       0      0           0          1.5
         Heavy           0      10       0      0             10      0        0       0       0          0       0      14         1      0          15      0       0       0      0           0           25
       % Heavy           0     0.3       0      0            0.3      0        0       0       0          0       0     0.5       0.8      0         0.5      0       0       0      0           0          0.4
           Ped           0       0       0      0              0      0        0       0       4          4       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0      0           0            4
         % Ped           0       0       0      0              0      0        0       0    100         1.1       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0      0           0          0.1




                                 SKOKIE VALLEY RD                          CROSSROADS NORTH                             SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             FIELDS ACCESS
                                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
      Start Time       Left    Thru     Right    Peds App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru   Right    Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
       08:00 AM           9      146         0       0      155        1       0       1       0         2        3       87      2        0         92        0      0      0       0           0         249
       08:15 AM          13      173         1       0      187        3       0       1       0         4        2     109       0        0        111        0      0      0       0           0         302
       08:30 AM         14       157         0       0      171        6       0       6       0        12        2       81      5        0         88        0      0      0       0           0         271
       08:45 AM          11      186         1       0      198        3       0      11       0        14        1       85      7        0         93        0      0      0       0           0         305
   Total Volume          47      662         2       0      711       13       0      19       0        32        8     362      14        0        384        0      0      0       0           0        1127
   % App. Total         6.6     93.1       0.3       0              40.6       0    59.4       0                2.1    94.3     3.6        0                   0      0      0       0
            PHF       .839      .890     .500     .000     .898     .542    .000    .432    .000       .571    .667    .830    .500     .000        .865    .000   .000   .000    .000        .000        .924
             Car         44      642         2       0      688       13       0      18       0         31       8     339      11        0         358       0      0      0       0           0        1077
          % Car       93.6      97.0      100        0     96.8      100       0    94.7       0       96.9     100    93.6    78.6        0        93.2       0      0      0       0           0        95.6
         Medium           3        17        0       0        20       0       0       1       0          1       0       21      2        0          23       0      0      0       0           0          44
     % Medium           6.4       2.6        0       0       2.8       0       0     5.3       0        3.1       0      5.8   14.3        0         6.0       0      0      0       0           0         3.9
          Heavy           0         3        0       0         3       0       0       0       0          0       0        2      1        0           3       0      0      0       0           0           6
        % Heavy           0       0.5        0       0       0.4       0       0       0       0          0       0      0.6    7.1        0         0.8       0      0      0       0           0         0.5
             Ped          0         0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0          0       0        0      0        0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
          % Ped           0         0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0          0       0        0      0        0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                         850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                            Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                            File Name       : Crossroads_N Weekday__128900_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ NORTH                                                                                             Site Code       :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                   Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                           Page No         :3


                                SKOKIE VALLEY RD                         CROSSROADS NORTH                         SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             FIELDS ACCESS
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 03:45 PM
      03:45 PM           15      164         0      0      179       8       0      14       0       22       4    160      12       0        176        0      0      1       0           1         378
      04:00 PM          23       142         1      0      166       5       0      25       0       30       2    214       9       0        225        0      0      0       0           0         421
      04:15 PM           23      152         0      0      175       5       0      28       1       34       2    213      10       0        225        1      0      1       0           2         436
      04:30 PM           23      132         1      0      156       4       0      17       3       24       0    225      15       0        240        1      0      3       0           4         424
   Total Volume          84      590         2      0      676      22       0      84       4      110       8    812      46       0        866        2      0      5       0           7        1659
   % App. Total       12.4      87.3       0.3      0               20       0    76.4     3.6              0.9   93.8     5.3       0                28.6      0   71.4       0
            PHF       .913      .899     .500    .000     .944    .688    .000    .750    .333      .809   .500   .902    .767    .000        .902    .500   .000   .417    .000        .438        .951
             Car         82      583         2      0      667      22       0      83       0       105      8    802      45       0         855       2      0      5       0           7        1634
          % Car       97.6      98.8      100       0     98.7     100       0    98.8       0      95.5    100   98.8    97.8       0        98.7     100      0    100       0         100        98.5
        Medium            2         5        0      0         7      0       0       1       0         1      0       8      1       0           9       0      0      0       0           0          17
     % Medium           2.4       0.8        0      0       1.0      0       0     1.2       0       0.9      0     1.0    2.2       0         1.0       0      0      0       0           0         1.0
          Heavy           0         2        0      0         2      0       0       0       0         0      0       2      0       0           2       0      0      0       0           0           4
       % Heavy            0       0.3        0      0       0.3      0       0       0       0         0      0     0.2      0       0         0.2       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
            Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       4         4      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           4
          % Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0     100       3.6      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                   850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                      Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                           Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                         File Name       : Crossroads_N Saturday-_128908_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ NORTH                                                                                          Site Code       :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                       Start Date      : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                        Page No         :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                       SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CROSSROADS NORTH                            SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             FIELDS ACCESS
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    11:00 AM     26     159       1       0        186      13        0      21       2         36       3     141        8      0        152       1       0       0      2           3          377
    11:15 AM     18     169       0       0        187      10        0      13       0         23       0     148        9      0        157       1       0       2      1           4          371
    11:30 AM     38     193       2       0        233       8        0      20       1         29       2     151       11      0        164       0       0       2      0           2          428
    11:45 AM     30     186       0       0        216       5        0      20       1         26       1     157        8      0        166       2       0       0      0           2          410
        Total   112     707       3       0        822      36        0      74       4       114        6     597       36      0        639       4       0       4      3          11         1586

    12:00 PM     26     190      2       0         218      11        0      18       0        29       3     169      13       0         185       0      0       2      0            2         434
    12:15 PM     35     175      0       0         210      13        0      33       3        49       2     160      14       0         176       2      0       0      0            2         437
    12:30 PM     41     166      2       0         209      12        0      37       0        49       5     194      13       0         212       0      0       2      0            2         472
    12:45 PM     32     201      0       0         233      11        0      34       4        49       2     167      12       0         181       0      0       2      0            2         465
        Total   134     732      4       0         870      47        0     122       7       176      12     690      52       0         754       2      0       6      0            8        1808

  Grand Total    246   1439      7       0        1692       83       0     196      11       290      18    1287      88       0        1393        6     0      10       3          19        3394
   Apprch %     14.5     85    0.4       0                 28.6       0    67.6     3.8               1.3    92.4     6.3       0                 31.6     0    52.6    15.8
     Total %     7.2   42.4    0.2       0        49.9      2.4       0     5.8     0.3       8.5     0.5    37.9     2.6       0          41      0.2     0     0.3     0.1         0.6
         Car     246   1431      7       0        1684       83       0     196       0       279      18    1285      87       0        1390        6     0      10       0          16        3369
       % Car     100   99.4    100       0        99.5      100       0     100       0      96.2     100    99.8    98.9       0        99.8      100     0     100       0        84.2        99.3
     Medium        0      7      0       0           7        0       0       0       0         0       0       2       1       0           3        0     0       0       0           0          10
   % Medium        0    0.5      0       0         0.4        0       0       0       0         0       0     0.2     1.1       0         0.2        0     0       0       0           0         0.3
      Heavy        0      1      0       0           1        0       0       0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0       0           0           1
    % Heavy        0    0.1      0       0         0.1        0       0       0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0       0           0           0
         Ped       0      0      0       0           0        0       0       0      11        11       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0       3           3          14
      % Ped        0      0      0       0           0        0       0       0     100       3.8       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0     100        15.8         0.4
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                         850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                            Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                              File Name       : Crossroads_N Saturday-_128908_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ NORTH                                                                                               Site Code       :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                            Start Date      : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                             Page No         :2


                                SKOKIE VALLEY RD                         CROSSROADS NORTH                         SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             FIELDS ACCESS
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 AM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
      12:00 PM          26       190         2      0      218      11       0      18       0       29       3    169      13       0        185        0      0      2       0           2         434
      12:15 PM          35       175         0      0      210      13       0      33       3       49       2    160      14       0        176        2      0      0       0           2         437
      12:30 PM          41       166         2      0      209      12       0      37       0       49       5    194      13       0        212        0      0      2       0           2         472
      12:45 PM          32       201         0      0      233      11       0      34       4       49       2    167      12       0        181        0      0      2       0           2         465
   Total Volume        134       732         4      0      870      47       0     122       7      176      12    690      52       0        754        2      0      6       0           8        1808
   % App. Total       15.4      84.1       0.5      0             26.7       0    69.3       4              1.6   91.5     6.9       0                  25      0     75       0
            PHF       .817      .910     .500    .000     .933    .904    .000    .824    .438      .898   .600   .889    .929    .000        .889    .250   .000   .750    .000        1.00        .958
             Car       134       728         4      0      866      47       0     122       0       169     12    689      51       0         752       2      0      6       0           8        1795
          % Car        100      99.5      100       0     99.5     100       0     100       0      96.0    100   99.9    98.1       0        99.7     100      0    100       0         100        99.3
        Medium           0          4        0      0         4      0       0       0       0         0      0       1      1       0           2       0      0      0       0           0           6
     % Medium            0        0.5        0      0       0.5      0       0       0       0         0      0     0.1    1.9       0         0.3       0      0      0       0           0         0.3
          Heavy          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
       % Heavy           0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
            Ped          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       7         7      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           7
          % Ped          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0     100       4.0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0         0.4
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                   850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                      Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                           Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                         File Name       : Crossroads_C Weekday-_128910_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ CENTER                                                                                         Site Code       :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                        Page No         :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                       SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CROSSROADS CENTER                           SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             HONDA ACCESS
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    06:00 AM      2      42       0       0         44       0        0       2       0          2       0      13        0      0         13       0       0       0      0           0           59
    06:15 AM      2      40       0       0         42       0        0       2       0          2       0      20        1      0         21       0       0       0      0           0           65
    06:30 AM      2      67       0       0         69       2        0       0       0          2       0      36        1      0         37       0       0       0      0           0          108
    06:45 AM      1      65       0       0         66       0        0       4       0          4       0      56        4      0         60       0       0       0      0           0          130
        Total     7     214       0       0        221       2        0       8       0         10       0     125        6      0        131       0       0       0      0           0          362

    07:00 AM      3      80      0       0          83       0        0       4       0         4       0      49       3       0          52       0      0       0      0            0         139
    07:15 AM      3     109      0       0         112       1        0       2       0         3       0      49       4       0          53       0      0       0      0            0         168
    07:30 AM      3     114      0       0         117       2        0       3       0         5       0      73       3       0          76       0      0       0      0            0         198
    07:45 AM      7     149      0       0         156       3        0       4       0         7       1      77       7       0          85       1      0       0      0            1         249
        Total    16     452      0       0         468       6        0      13       0        19       1     248      17       0         266       1      0       0      0            1         754

    08:00 AM      3     142      0       0         145       6        0       3       0         9       1      92       4       0          97       0      0       1      0            1         252
    08:15 AM      9     158      0       0         167       5        0       3       0         8       0     105       9       0         114       0      0       0      0            0         289
    08:30 AM      9     147      0       0         156       1        0       4       1         6       0      81      10       0          91       1      0       0      0            1         254
    08:45 AM      9     180      0       0         189       5        0       4       0         9       1      95      11       0         107       0      0       0      0            0         305
        Total    30     627      0       0         657      17        0      14       1        32       2     373      34       0         409       1      0       1      0            2        1100



    03:00 PM      9     161      1       0         171      20        0      17       1        38       2     145      17       0         164       0      0       1      2            3         376
    03:15 PM     12     150      0       1         163      16        0      16       0        32       2     166      25       0         193       1      0       0      1            2         390
    03:30 PM      8     159      0       1         168      25        0      24       1        50       0     149      15       0         164       0      0       0      0            0         382
    03:45 PM     14     158      0       0         172      18        0      17       0        35       2     162      27       0         191       0      0       0      0            0         398
        Total    43     628      1       2         674      79        0      74       2       155       6     622      84       0         712       1      0       1      3            5        1546

    04:00 PM     10     146      1       0         157      13        0      16       1        30       2     207      15       0         224       0      0       0      0            0         411
    04:15 PM     14     142      0       0         156      15        0      26       0        41       1     200      15       0         216       1      0       0      0            1         414
    04:30 PM     13     134      1       0         148      16        0      23       2        41       1     215      14       0         230       0      0       2      0            2         421
    04:45 PM      4     150      0       0         154      19        0      15       0        34       0     164      19       0         183       0      0       1      0            1         372
        Total    41     572      2       0         615      63        0      80       3       146       4     786      63       0         853       1      0       3      0            4        1618

    05:00 PM     16     117      0       0         133      19        0      23       0        42       1     204      24       0         229       0      0       0      0            0         404
    05:15 PM     18     132      0       0         150      15        0      23       0        38       2     217      18       0         237       0      0       2      2            4         429
    05:30 PM     14     144      0       0         158      23        0      25       0        48       2     182      28       0         212       0      0       0      1            1         419
    05:45 PM     20     137      0       0         157      19        0      15       0        34       0     159      21       0         180       1      0       0      1            2         373
        Total    68     530      0       0         598      76        0      86       0       162       5     762      91       0         858       1      0       2      4            7        1625

  Grand Total   205    3023      3        2       3233      243       0     275        6      524      18    2916      295      0        3229        5     0       7       7          19        7005
   Apprch %     6.3    93.5    0.1      0.1                46.4       0    52.5      1.1              0.6    90.3      9.1      0                 26.3     0    36.8    36.8
     Total %    2.9    43.2      0        0       46.2      3.5       0     3.9      0.1      7.5     0.3    41.6      4.2      0        46.1      0.1     0     0.1     0.1         0.3
         Car    205    2964      3        0       3172      243       0     273        0      516      18    2856      294      0        3168        5     0       7       0          12        6868
       % Car    100      98    100        0       98.1      100       0    99.3        0     98.5     100    97.9     99.7      0        98.1      100     0     100       0        63.2          98
                                                                     Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                            850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                               Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                    Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                  File Name        : Crossroads_C Weekday-_128910_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ CENTER                                                                                                  Site Code        :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                         Start Date       : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                 Page No          :2
                                                                                    Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                              SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             CROSSROADS CENTER                           SKOKIE VALLEY RD                              HONDA ACCESS
                                   Southbound                                    Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
                      Left    Thru   Right   Peds      App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
        Medium          0       47       0      0             47      0        0       2       0          2       0      42         1      0          43      0       0       0      0           0           92
      % Medium          0      1.6       0      0            1.5      0        0     0.7       0        0.4       0     1.4       0.3      0         1.3      0       0       0      0           0          1.3
         Heavy          0       12       0      0             12      0        0       0       0          0       0      18         0      0          18      0       0       0      0           0           30
       % Heavy          0      0.4       0      0            0.4      0        0       0       0          0       0     0.6         0      0         0.6      0       0       0      0           0          0.4
           Ped          0        0       0      2              2      0        0       0       6          6       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0      7           7           15
         % Ped          0        0       0    100            0.1      0        0       0    100         1.1       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0    100        36.8          0.2




                                 SKOKIE VALLEY RD                          CROSSROADS CENTER                            SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             HONDA ACCESS
                                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
      Start Time       Left    Thru     Right    Peds App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total      Left   Thru   Right    Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
       08:00 AM           3      142        0        0      145        6       0        3       0         9       1       92      4        0         97        0      0      1       0           1         252
       08:15 AM           9      158        0        0      167        5       0        3       0         8       0     105       9        0        114        0      0      0       0           0         289
       08:30 AM           9      147        0        0      156        1       0        4       1         6       0       81     10        0         91        1      0      0       0           1         254
       08:45 AM           9      180        0        0      189        5       0        4       0         9       1       95     11        0        107        0      0      0       0           0         305
   Total Volume          30      627        0        0      657       17       0       14       1        32       2     373      34        0        409        1      0      1       0           2        1100
   % App. Total         4.6     95.4        0        0              53.1       0     43.8     3.1               0.5    91.2     8.3        0                  50      0     50       0
            PHF       .833      .871     .000     .000     .869     .708    .000     .875    .250      .889    .500    .888    .773     .000        .897    .250   .000   .250    .000        .500        .902
             Car         30      607        0        0      637       17       0       14       0        31       2     346      34        0         382       1      0      1       0           2        1052
          % Car        100      96.8        0        0     97.0      100       0      100       0      96.9     100    92.8     100        0        93.4     100      0    100       0         100        95.6
         Medium           0        16       0        0        16       0       0        0       0         0       0       23      0        0          23       0      0      0       0           0          39
     % Medium             0       2.6       0        0       2.4       0       0        0       0         0       0      6.2      0        0         5.6       0      0      0       0           0         3.5
          Heavy           0         4       0        0         4       0       0        0       0         0       0        4      0        0           4       0      0      0       0           0           8
        % Heavy           0       0.6       0        0       0.6       0       0        0       0         0       0      1.1      0        0         1.0       0      0      0       0           0         0.7
             Ped          0         0       0        0         0       0       0        0       1         1       0        0      0        0           0       0      0      0       0           0           1
          % Ped           0         0       0        0         0       0       0        0     100       3.1       0        0      0        0           0       0      0      0       0           0         0.1
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                          850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                             Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                             File Name       : Crossroads_C Weekday-_128910_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ CENTER                                                                                             Site Code       :
6-9 AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                    Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                            Page No         :3


                                SKOKIE VALLEY RD                         CROSSROADS CENTER                        SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             HONDA ACCESS
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 03:45 PM
      03:45 PM          14       158         0      0      172      18       0      17       0       35       2    162      27       0        191        0      0      0       0           0         398
      04:00 PM           10      146         1      0      157      13       0      16       1       30       2    207      15       0        224        0      0      0       0           0         411
      04:15 PM           14      142         0      0      156      15       0      26       0       41       1    200      15       0        216        1      0      0       0           1         414
      04:30 PM           13      134         1      0      148      16       0      23       2       41       1    215      14       0        230        0      0      2       0           2         421
   Total Volume          51      580         2      0      633      62       0      82       3      147       6    784      71       0        861        1      0      2       0           3        1644
   % App. Total         8.1     91.6       0.3      0             42.2       0    55.8       2              0.7   91.1     8.2       0                33.3      0   66.7       0
            PHF       .911      .918     .500    .000     .920    .861    .000    .788    .375      .896   .750   .912    .657    .000        .936    .250   .000   .250    .000        .375        .976
             Car         51      573         2      0      626      62       0      82       0       144      6    778      71       0         855       1      0      2       0           3        1628
          % Car        100      98.8      100       0     98.9     100       0     100       0      98.0    100   99.2     100       0        99.3     100      0    100       0         100        99.0
        Medium            0         5        0      0         5      0       0       0       0         0      0       4      0       0           4       0      0      0       0           0           9
     % Medium             0       0.9        0      0       0.8      0       0       0       0         0      0     0.5      0       0         0.5       0      0      0       0           0         0.5
          Heavy           0         2        0      0         2      0       0       0       0         0      0       2      0       0           2       0      0      0       0           0           4
       % Heavy            0       0.3        0      0       0.3      0       0       0       0         0      0     0.3      0       0         0.2       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
            Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       3         3      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           3
          % Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0     100       2.0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                   850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                      Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                           Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                 File Name         : Crossroads_C Sat-_128916_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ CENTER                                                                                                 Site Code         :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                               Start Date        : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                       SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CROSSROADS CENTER                           SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             HONDA ACCESS
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    11:00 AM     28     138       2       0        168      33        0      21       2         56       1     126       26      0        153       2       0       0      2           4          381
    11:15 AM     20     166       1       0        187      30        0      22       0         52       1     137       30      0        168       1       0       1      1           3          410
    11:30 AM     16     181       1       0        198      30        0      31       1         62       4     138       34      0        176       0       0       1      0           1          437
    11:45 AM     29     167       0       0        196      40        0      20       1         61       1     147       33      0        181       2       0       3      0           5          443
        Total    93     652       4       0        749     133        0      94       4       231        7     548     123       0        678       5       0       5      3          13         1671

    12:00 PM     24     173      1       0         198      24        0      28       0        52       1     156      40       0         197       0      0       0      2            2         449
    12:15 PM     17     174      1       0         192      38        0      25       3        66       0     156      37       0         193       4      0       0      3            7         458
    12:30 PM     30     161      0       0         191      34        0      37       1        72       2     171      36       0         209       0      0       1      0            1         473
    12:45 PM     19     197      0       0         216      36        0      27       3        66       2     167      44       0         213       0      0       0      1            1         496
        Total    90     705      2       0         797     132        0     117       7       256       5     650     157       0         812       4      0       1      6           11        1876

  Grand Total    183   1357      6       0        1546      265       0     211      11       487      12    1198      280      0        1490        9     0       6       9          24        3547
   Apprch %     11.8   87.8    0.4       0                 54.4       0    43.3     2.3               0.8    80.4     18.8      0                 37.5     0      25    37.5
     Total %     5.2   38.3    0.2       0        43.6      7.5       0     5.9     0.3      13.7     0.3    33.8      7.9      0          42      0.3     0     0.2     0.3         0.7
         Car     183   1349      6       0        1538      265       0     211       0       476      12    1194      280      0        1486        9     0       6       0          15        3515
       % Car     100   99.4    100       0        99.5      100       0     100       0      97.7     100    99.7      100      0        99.7      100     0     100       0        62.5        99.1
     Medium        0      7      0       0           7        0       0       0       0         0       0       4        0      0           4        0     0       0       0           0          11
   % Medium        0    0.5      0       0         0.5        0       0       0       0         0       0     0.3        0      0         0.3        0     0       0       0           0         0.3
      Heavy        0      1      0       0           1        0       0       0       0         0       0       0        0      0           0        0     0       0       0           0           1
    % Heavy        0    0.1      0       0         0.1        0       0       0       0         0       0       0        0      0           0        0     0       0       0           0           0
         Ped       0      0      0       0           0        0       0       0      11        11       0       0        0      0           0        0     0       0       9           9          20
      % Ped        0      0      0       0           0        0       0       0     100       2.3       0       0        0      0           0        0     0       0     100        37.5         0.6
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                          850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                             Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                     File Name         : Crossroads_C Sat-_128916_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ CENTER                                                                                                     Site Code         :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                    Page No           :2


                                SKOKIE VALLEY RD                         CROSSROADS CENTER                        SKOKIE VALLEY RD                             HONDA ACCESS
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 AM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
      12:00 PM          24       173         1      0      198      24       0      28       0       52       1    156      40       0        197        0      0      0       2           2         449
      12:15 PM          17       174         1      0      192      38       0      25       3       66       0    156      37       0        193        4      0      0       3           7         458
      12:30 PM          30       161         0      0      191      34       0      37       1       72       2    171      36       0        209        0      0      1       0           1         473
      12:45 PM          19       197         0      0      216      36       0      27       3       66       2    167      44       0        213        0      0      0       1           1         496
   Total Volume         90       705         2      0      797     132       0     117       7      256       5    650     157       0        812        4      0      1       6          11        1876
   % App. Total       11.3      88.5       0.3      0             51.6       0    45.7     2.7              0.6      80   19.3       0                36.4      0    9.1    54.5
            PHF       .750      .895     .500    .000     .922    .868    .000    .791    .583      .889   .625   .950    .892    .000        .953    .250   .000   .250    .500        .393        .946
             Car        90       703         2      0      795     132       0     117       0       249      5    648     157       0         810       4      0      1       0           5        1859
          % Car        100      99.7      100       0     99.7     100       0     100       0      97.3    100   99.7     100       0        99.8     100      0    100       0        45.5        99.1
        Medium           0          2        0      0         2      0       0       0       0         0      0       2      0       0           2       0      0      0       0           0           4
     % Medium            0        0.3        0      0       0.3      0       0       0       0         0      0     0.3      0       0         0.2       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
          Heavy          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
       % Heavy           0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
            Ped          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0       7         7      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       6           6          13
          % Ped          0          0        0      0         0      0       0       0     100       2.7      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0     100        54.5         0.7
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                  850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                     Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                          Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                         File Name        : Crossroads_S Weekday-_128918_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ SOUTH                                                                                          Site Code        :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                 Start Date       : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                        Page No          :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                         Skokie Valley Rd                           Crossroads South                             Skokie Valley Rd                           Car Wash Access
                            Southbound                                 Westbound                                   Northbound                                  Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds App. Total      Left    Thru    Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    06:00 AM      4      37       1       0         42       4       0       0        0          4       0      14       18       0         32       0       1       0      0           1           79
    06:15 AM      0      43       1       0         44      13       0       1        0         14       0      23       17       0         40       0       0       0      0           0           98
    06:30 AM      3      60       0       0         63      15       0       0        0         15       0      38        8       0         46       0       0       0      0           0          124
    06:45 AM      1      64       0       0         65      16       0       5        0         21       0      60        8       0         68       0       0       0      0           0          154
        Total     8     204       2       0        214      48       0       6        0         54       0     135       51       0        186       0       1       0      0           1          455

    07:00 AM      2      80      0       0          82      15       0       3       0         18       0      53       11       0          64       0      0       0      0            0         164
    07:15 AM      1     111      1       0         113      13       0       3       0         16       0      60        8       0          68       0      0       0      0            0         197
    07:30 AM      1     103      1       0         105      17       0       4       0         21       0      73       16       0          89       0      0       0      0            0         215
    07:45 AM      4     155      2       0         161       8       0       0       0          8       3      84       16       0         103       0      0       0      0            0         272
        Total     8     449      4       0         461      53       0      10       0         63       3     270       51       0         324       0      0       0      0            0         848

    08:00 AM      4     153      1       0         158      11       0       4       0         15       2     107       21       0         130       0      0       1      0            1         304
    08:15 AM      9     160      0       0         169       8       0       6       0         14       1      97       32       0         130       0      0       2      0            2         315
    08:30 AM      4     138      0       0         142      12       0       3       0         15       0     107       26       0         133       0      0       0      0            0         290
    08:45 AM     12     170      1       0         183      10       0       3       0         13       0      94       27       0         121       0      0       0      0            0         317
        Total    29     621      2       0         652      41       0      16       0         57       3     405      106       0         514       0      0       3      0            3        1226



    03:00 PM      5     173      1       0         179      11       0       5       1         17       5     158       23       0         186       1      0       3      0            4         386
    03:15 PM     10     168      0       0         178      12       0       4       0         16       0     183       19       0         202       0      0       0      0            0         396
    03:30 PM      9     162      1       0         172      16       0      16       0         32       2     165       28       0         195       0      0       1      0            1         400
    03:45 PM      7     172      1       0         180      16       0       6       0         22       0     175       29       0         204       0      0       3      0            3         409
        Total    31     675      3       0         709      55       0      31       1         87       7     681       99       0         787       1      0       7      0            8        1591

    04:00 PM      7     162      0       0         169      22       0      16       0         38       3     222       27       0         252       0      0       2      1            3         462
    04:15 PM      6     144      4       0         154      20       0       6       0         26       4     190       30       0         224       2      0       6      0            8         412
    04:30 PM      5     141      1       0         147      21       0       5       2         28       3     236       34       0         273       1      1       2      0            4         452
    04:45 PM      3     173      1       0         177      20       0      10       0         30       2     166       24       0         192       2      0       6      0            8         407
        Total    21     620      6       0         647      83       0      37       2        122      12     814      115       0         941       5      1      16      1           23        1733

    05:00 PM      5     150      0       0         155      24       0       9       0         33       4     234       31       0         269       0      0       5      1            6         463
    05:15 PM      6     149      1       0         156      14       1       8       0         23       3     214       35       0         252       2      0       1      1            4         435
    05:30 PM      6     162      0       0         168      14       0       6       0         20       1     217       39       0         257       0      0       1      0            1         446
    05:45 PM      8     152      0       0         160      20       0       5       0         25       3     164       34       0         201       0      0       2      0            2         388
        Total    25     613      1       0         639      72       1      28       0        101      11     829      139       0         979       2      0       9      2           13        1732

  Grand Total   122    3182      18      0        3322      352     1      128        3       484      36    3134      561       0        3731        8      2     35       3          48        7585
   Apprch %     3.7    95.8     0.5      0                 72.7   0.2     26.4      0.6                 1      84       15       0                 16.7    4.2   72.9     6.2
     Total %    1.6      42     0.2      0        43.8      4.6     0      1.7        0       6.4     0.5    41.3      7.4       0        49.2      0.1      0    0.5       0         0.6
         Car    122    3115      17      0        3254      350     1      127        0       478      35    3076      559       0        3670        8      1     34       0          43        7445
       % Car    100    97.9    94.4      0          98     99.4   100     99.2        0      98.8    97.2    98.1     99.6       0        98.4      100     50   97.1       0        89.6        98.2
                                                                      Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                            850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                               Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                    Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                   File Name        : Crossroads_S Weekday-_128918_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ SOUTH                                                                                                    Site Code        :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                           Start Date       : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                  Page No          :2
                                                                                     Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                Skokie Valley Rd                              Crossroads South                             Skokie Valley Rd                           Car Wash Access
                                   Southbound                                    Westbound                                    Northbound                                 Eastbound
                      Left    Thru   Right    Peds      App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds App. Total      Left    Thru    Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
        Medium          0       59        1      0             60       2      0       0        0          2       1      42         2      0          45      0       1       1      0           2          109
      % Medium          0      1.9      5.6      0            1.8     0.6      0       0        0        0.4     2.8     1.3       0.4      0         1.2      0      50     2.9      0         4.2          1.4
         Heavy          0        8        0      0              8       0      0       1        0          1       0      16         0      0          16      0       0       0      0           0           25
       % Heavy          0      0.3        0      0            0.2       0      0     0.8        0        0.2       0     0.5         0      0         0.4      0       0       0      0           0          0.3
           Ped          0        0        0      0              0       0      0       0        3          3       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0      3           3            6
         % Ped          0        0        0      0              0       0      0       0     100         0.6       0        0        0      0           0      0       0       0    100         6.2          0.1




                                    Skokie Valley Rd                          Crossroads South                            Skokie Valley Rd                            Car Wash Access
                                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                   Northbound                                  Eastbound
      Start Time       Left    Thru      Right    Peds App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Left    Thru   Right    Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
       08:00 AM           4      153         1        0      158       11      0       4       0          15       2     107      21       0         130        0      0      1       0           1         304
       08:15 AM           9      160         0        0      169        8      0       6       0          14       1       97     32       0         130        0      0      2       0           2         315
       08:30 AM           4      138         0        0      142       12      0       3       0          15       0     107      26       0         133        0      0      0       0           0         290
       08:45 AM         12       170         1        0      183       10      0       3       0          13       0       94     27       0         121        0      0      0       0           0         317
   Total Volume          29      621         2        0      652       41      0      16       0          57       3     405     106       0         514        0      0      3       0           3        1226
   % App. Total         4.4     95.2       0.3        0              71.9      0    28.1       0                 0.6    78.8    20.6       0                    0      0    100       0
            PHF       .604      .913      .500     .000     .891     .854   .000    .667    .000        .950    .375    .946    .828    .000         .966    .000   .000   .375    .000        .375        .967
             Car         29      594         2        0      625       41      0      16       0          57       3     376     105       0          484       0      0      3       0           3        1169
          % Car        100      95.7       100        0     95.9      100      0     100       0         100     100    92.8    99.1       0         94.2       0      0    100       0         100        95.4
         Medium           0        27        0        0        27       0      0       0       0           0       0       24      1       0           25       0      0      0       0           0          52
     % Medium             0       4.3        0        0       4.1       0      0       0       0           0       0      5.9    0.9       0          4.9       0      0      0       0           0         4.2
          Heavy           0         0        0        0         0       0      0       0       0           0       0        5      0       0            5       0      0      0       0           0           5
        % Heavy           0         0        0        0         0       0      0       0       0           0       0      1.2      0       0          1.0       0      0      0       0           0         0.4
             Ped          0         0        0        0         0       0      0       0       0           0       0        0      0       0            0       0      0      0       0           0           0
          % Ped           0         0        0        0         0       0      0       0       0           0       0        0      0       0            0       0      0      0       0           0           0
                                                                    Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                        850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                           Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                 Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                               File Name       : Crossroads_S Weekday-_128918_09-19-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ SOUTH                                                                                                Site Code       :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                       Start Date      : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                              Page No         :3


                                   Skokie Valley Rd                         Crossroads South                          Skokie Valley Rd                           Car Wash Access
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right    Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
      04:30 PM           5       141         1       0      147      21      0      5       2         28        3    236      34       0        273        1      1      2       0           4         452
      04:45 PM           3       173         1       0      177      20      0     10       0         30        2    166      24       0        192        2      0      6       0           8         407
      05:00 PM           5       150         0       0      155      24      0      9       0         33        4    234      31       0        269        0      0      5       1           6         463
      05:15 PM           6       149         1       0      156      14      1      8       0         23        3    214      35       0        252        2      0      1       1           4         435
   Total Volume         19       613         3       0      635      79      1     32       2        114       12    850     124       0        986        5      1     14       2          22        1757
   % App. Total          3      96.5       0.5       0             69.3    0.9   28.1     1.8                 1.2   86.2    12.6       0                22.7    4.5   63.6     9.1
            PHF       .792      .886     .750     .000     .897    .823   .250   .800    .250        .864    .750   .900    .886    .000        .903    .625   .250   .583    .500        .688        .949
             Car        19       608         3       0      630      78      1     32       0         111      12    844     123       0         979       5      1     14       0          20        1740
          % Car        100      99.2      100        0     99.2    98.7    100    100       0        97.4     100   99.3    99.2       0        99.3     100    100    100       0        90.9        99.0
        Medium           0          5        0       0         5      1      0      0       0           1       0       4      1       0           5       0      0      0       0           0          11
     % Medium            0        0.8        0       0       0.8    1.3      0      0       0         0.9       0     0.5    0.8       0         0.5       0      0      0       0           0         0.6
          Heavy          0          0        0       0         0      0      0      0       0           0       0       2      0       0           2       0      0      0       0           0           2
       % Heavy           0          0        0       0         0      0      0      0       0           0       0     0.2      0       0         0.2       0      0      0       0           0         0.1
            Ped          0          0        0       0         0      0      0      0       2           2       0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       2           2           4
          % Ped          0          0        0       0         0      0      0      0     100         1.8       0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0     100         9.1         0.2
                                                            Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                   850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                      Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                           Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                 File Name         : Crossroads_S Sat-_128920_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ SOUTH                                                                                                  Site Code         :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                               Start Date        : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                Page No           :1
                                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                       SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CROSSROADS SOUTH                            SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CAR WASH ACCESS
                            Southbound                                  Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time      Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    11:00 AM     10     171       4       0        185      26        0       8       0         34     18      159       28      0        205       6       1      11      3          21          445
    11:15 AM     11     190       3       0        204      20        0       5       0         25     11      161       26      0        198       7       0       5      0          12          439
    11:30 AM      7     196       9       0        212      18        0       7       0         25       7     195       26      0        228       4       0       6      1          11          476
    11:45 AM      8     200       9       0        217      32        0       6       0         38       8     171       32      0        211       7       1       4      0          12          478
        Total    36     757      25       0        818      96        0      26       0       122      44      686     112       0        842      24       2      26      4          56         1838

    12:00 PM      3     201      6       0         210      46        1       8       0        55       6     188      24       0         218       3      0      10      0           13         496
    12:15 PM      4     209      5       0         218      22        0      10       0        32      14     194      29       0         237       7      0      24      1           32         519
    12:30 PM      7     189      4       0         200      33        0      10       0        43      14     200      34       0         248       5      0      12      0           17         508
    12:45 PM     10     224      5       0         239      22        1       5       0        28      11     207      24       0         242       2      0       8      1           11         520
        Total    24     823     20       0         867     123        2      33       0       158      45     789     111       0         945      17      0      54      2           73        2043

  Grand Total    60    1580     45       0        1685      219      2       59       0       280      89    1475     223       0        1787       41     2      80      6         129         3881
   Apprch %     3.6    93.8    2.7       0                 78.2    0.7     21.1       0                 5    82.5    12.5       0                 31.8   1.6      62    4.7
     Total %    1.5    40.7    1.2       0        43.4      5.6    0.1      1.5       0       7.2     2.3      38     5.7       0          46      1.1   0.1     2.1    0.2          3.3
         Car     60    1570     45       0        1675      218      2       59       0       279      89    1472     223       0        1784       41     2      80      0          123        3861
       % Car    100    99.4    100       0        99.4     99.5    100      100       0      99.6     100    99.8     100       0        99.8      100   100     100      0         95.3        99.5
     Medium       0       8      0       0           8        1      0        0       0         1       0       3       0       0           3        0     0       0      0            0          12
   % Medium       0     0.5      0       0         0.5      0.5      0        0       0       0.4       0     0.2       0       0         0.2        0     0       0      0            0         0.3
      Heavy       0       2      0       0           2        0      0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0      0            0           2
    % Heavy       0     0.1      0       0         0.1        0      0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0      0            0         0.1
         Ped      0       0      0       0           0        0      0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0      6            6           6
      % Ped       0       0      0       0           0        0      0        0       0         0       0       0       0       0           0        0     0       0    100          4.7         0.2
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates
                                                                                         850 Forest Edge Drive
                                                                                            Vernon Hills, IL
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
4783 CROSSROADS CENTER                                                                                                     File Name         : Crossroads_S Sat-_128920_09-21-2013
SKOKIE VALLEY @ SOUTH                                                                                                      Site Code         :
11-1 SAT                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 9/21/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                    Page No           :2


                                SKOKIE VALLEY RD                         CROSSROADS SOUTH                         SKOKIE VALLEY RD                           CAR WASH ACCESS
                                      Southbound                               Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
     Start Time        Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total   Left    Thru   Right   Peds App. Total   Left   Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 AM to 12:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
      12:00 PM            3      201         6      0      210      46       1       8       0       55       6    188      24       0        218        3      0     10       0          13         496
      12:15 PM            4      209         5      0      218      22       0      10       0       32      14    194      29       0        237        7      0     24       1          32         519
      12:30 PM            7      189         4      0      200      33       0      10       0       43      14    200      34       0        248        5      0     12       0          17         508
      12:45 PM          10       224         5      0      239      22       1       5       0       28      11    207      24       0        242        2      0      8       1          11         520
   Total Volume          24      823        20      0      867     123       2      33       0      158      45    789     111       0        945       17      0     54       2          73        2043
   % App. Total         2.8     94.9       2.3      0             77.8     1.3    20.9       0              4.8   83.5    11.7       0                23.3      0     74     2.7
            PHF       .600      .919     .833    .000     .907    .668    .500    .825    .000      .718   .804   .953    .816    .000        .953    .607   .000   .563    .500        .570        .982
             Car         24      821        20      0      865     122       2      33       0       157     45    788     111       0         944      17      0     54       0          71        2037
          % Car        100      99.8      100       0     99.8    99.2     100     100       0      99.4    100   99.9     100       0        99.9     100      0    100       0        97.3        99.7
        Medium            0         2        0      0         2      1       0       0       0         1      0       1      0       0           1       0      0      0       0           0           4
     % Medium             0       0.2        0      0       0.2    0.8       0       0       0       0.6      0     0.1      0       0         0.1       0      0      0       0           0         0.2
          Heavy           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
       % Heavy            0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       0           0           0
            Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0       2           2           2
          % Ped           0         0        0      0         0      0       0       0       0         0      0       0      0       0           0       0      0      0     100         2.7         0.1
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM EXISTING

Project Description AM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS                 North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                     4            5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                     L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   365           15                    50          665                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95         0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   384              15                  52         700                   5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                   --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                    10          11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                     L           T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                                   1                    15                               20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                  0.95        0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               1                   15             0                21
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                      Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                     1              4                                7             8             9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                L                           R                   LR
v (veh/h)                   10             52                               15                          21                    2
C (m) (veh/h)              889            1156                             357                         779                  386
v/c                       0.01            0.04                             0.04                        0.03                 0.01
95% queue length          0.03            0.14                             0.13                        0.08                 0.02
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.1             8.3                             15.5                         9.7                 14.4
LOS                         A               A                               C                            A                    B
Approach Delay (s/veh)       --             --                                            12.2                             14.4
Approach LOS                 --             --                                             B                                 B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/7/2013   1:08 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM TOTAL

Project Description AM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS               North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   395           30                     60         695                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   415              31                  63         731                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Rai
                                                                                          sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2            0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T           TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               1                                  1                     20                              35
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               1                   21             0               36
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                  22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                        Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                  10              63                               21                          36                    2
C (m) (veh/h)             865             1111                             330                         754                  357
v/c                       0.01            0.06                             0.06                        0.05                 0.01
95% queue length          0.04            0.18                             0.20                        0.15                 0.02
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.2             8.4                             16.6                        10.0                 15.1
LOS                         A               A                               C                           B                     C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                             12.5                            15.1
Approach LOS                --              --                                              B                                C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      1:47 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k246E.tmp                                                                         10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM EXISTING

Project Description PM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS                 North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                     4            5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                     L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   815           50                    85          590                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95         0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   857              52                  89         621                   5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                   --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                    10          11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                     L           T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                                   5                    25                               85
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                  0.95        0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0               5                   26             0                89
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                      Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                     1              4                                7             8             9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                L                          R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   10             89                               26                          89                   10
C (m) (veh/h)              952            745                              203                         548                  310
v/c                       0.01            0.12                             0.13                        0.16                 0.03
95% queue length          0.03            0.41                             0.43                        0.58                 0.10
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.8            10.5                             25.3                        12.8                 17.0
LOS                         A              B                                D                           B                    C
Approach Delay (s/veh)       --             --                                            15.7                             17.0
Approach LOS                 --             --                                             C                                 C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/7/2013   1:04 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM TOTAL

Project Description PM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS               North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   870           80                    105         650                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   915              84                 110         684                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Rai
                                                                                          sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2            0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T           TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                                  5                     45                             115
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0               5                   47             0               121
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                        Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                  10             110                               47                         121                   10
C (m) (veh/h)             901             689                              174                         569                  258
v/c                       0.01            0.16                             0.27                        0.21                 0.04
95% queue length          0.03            0.57                             1.04                        0.80                 0.12
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.0            11.2                             33.2                        13.0                 19.5
LOS                         A              B                                D                           B                     C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                             18.7                            19.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                              C                                C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      1:50 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k6CF8.tmp                                                                         10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT EXISTING

Project Description SAT EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS                 North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              15                   690           55                    135         735                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            15                   726              57                 142         773                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                  0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                    0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                   TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                                  10                     50                             125
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0               10                  52             0               131
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                  22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                       Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                     1              4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L              L                                 L                          R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   15            142                               52                         131                   15
C (m) (veh/h)              834            831                              187                         597                  290
v/c                       0.02            0.17                             0.28                        0.22                 0.05
95% queue length          0.05            0.61                             1.09                        0.83                 0.16
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.4            10.2                             31.5                        12.7                 18.1
LOS                         A              B                                D                           B                    C
Approach Delay (s/veh)       --             --                                             18.1                            18.1
Approach LOS                 --             --                                              C                                C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/7/2013      12:58 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                              NORTH DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT TOTAL

Project Description SAT TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: NORTH CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South             Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              15                   825           95                    165         815                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            15                   868          100                    173         857                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Rai
                                                                                          sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2            0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T           TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                                 10                     80                             165
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0               10                  84             0               173
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                        Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                  15             173                               84                         173                   15
C (m) (veh/h)             776             707                              140                         581                  215
v/c                       0.02            0.24                             0.60                        0.30                 0.07
95% queue length          0.06            0.96                             3.11                        1.24                 0.22
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.7            11.7                             63.4                        13.8                 23.0
LOS                         A              B                                F                           B                     C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                             30.0                            23.0
Approach LOS                --              --                                              D                                C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      1:58 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k8D69.tmp                                                                         10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM EXISTING

Project Description AM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                     4            5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                     L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                    375           35                    30          630                  1
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95         0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   394              36                  31         663                   1
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                   --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                    10          11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                     L           T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                                   1                    20                               15
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                  0.95        0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               1                   21             0                15
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                      Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7             8             9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                L                           R                   LR
v (veh/h)                   5              31                               21                          15                    2
C (m) (veh/h)              921            1126                             384                         763                  425
v/c                       0.01            0.03                             0.05                        0.02                 0.00
95% queue length          0.02            0.08                             0.17                        0.06                 0.01
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.9             8.3                             14.9                         9.8                 13.5
LOS                         A               A                               B                            A                    B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                            12.8                             13.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                             B                                 B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/7/2013   1:09 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                              CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM TOTAL

Project Description AM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS              North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                   400           75                     55         660                  1
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   421              78                  57         694                  1
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Rai
                                                                                          sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2            0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T           TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               1                                  1                     45                              35
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               1                   47             0               36
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                        Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                            R                   LR
v (veh/h)                   5              57                               47                          36                    2
C (m) (veh/h)             897             1061                             337                         787                  380
v/c                       0.01            0.05                             0.14                        0.05                 0.01
95% queue length          0.02            0.17                             0.48                        0.14                 0.02
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.0             8.6                             17.4                         9.8                 14.5
LOS                         A               A                               C                            A                    B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                             14.1                            14.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                              B                                B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      1:48 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k1AE8.tmp                                                                         10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM EXISTING

Project Description PM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                     4            5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                     L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                    785           75                    55          580                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95         0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   826              78                  57         610                   5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                   --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                    10          11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                     L           T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                                   5                    65                               85
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                  0.95        0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               5                   68             0                89
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                      Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7             8             9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                L                          R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   5              57                               68                          89                    6
C (m) (veh/h)              961            748                              224                         550                  536
v/c                       0.01            0.08                             0.30                        0.16                 0.01
95% queue length          0.02            0.25                             1.23                        0.57                 0.03
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.8            10.2                             27.9                        12.8                 11.8
LOS                         A              B                                D                           B                     B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                            19.4                             11.8
Approach LOS                --              --                                             C                                 B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/7/2013   1:05 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                              CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM TOTAL

Project Description PM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS              North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                      4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                      L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                   815          155                    105         590                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                   0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   857          163                    110         621                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                             Rai
                                                                                          sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2            0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T           TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                               0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                     10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                      L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               1                                  5                    120                             145
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                   0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0               5                  126             0               152
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                        Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   5             110                              126                         152                    6
C (m) (veh/h)             952             676                              185                         562                  465
v/c                       0.01            0.16                             0.68                        0.27                 0.01
95% queue length          0.02            0.58                             4.11                        1.09                 0.04
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.8            11.4                             58.1                        13.8                 12.8
LOS                         A              B                                F                           B                     B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                             33.9                            12.8
Approach LOS                --              --                                              D                                B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      1:55 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k6344.tmp                                                                         10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                              CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                              VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT EXISTING

Project Description SAT EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                     4            5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                     L            T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                    650          160                    90          705                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                  0.95         0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   684          168                     94         742                   5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --              --                  2           --                   --
Median Type                                                                             Raised curb
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        1                    2                0                  1          2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T               TR                  L          T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                    10          11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                     L           T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                                   1                   135                              120
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                  0.95        0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0               1                 142              0               126
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2               2                   2           2                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
   Storage                                                        0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                    0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                    0               0                   1              0                 1
Configuration                                                    LR                                   L                                R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                      Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                7             8             9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                               L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   5              94                              142                         126                    6
C (m) (veh/h)              857            783                              220                         627                  205
v/c                       0.01            0.12                             0.65                        0.20                 0.03
95% queue length          0.02            0.41                             3.90                        0.75                 0.09
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.2            10.2                             47.0                        12.2                 23.1
LOS                         A              B                                E                           B                    C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                            30.6                             23.1
Approach LOS                --              --                                             D                                 C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                            HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/7/2013   1:03 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                             Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                         Site Information
                                                                                                               CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                                Intersection
                                                                                                               VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                            Jurisdiction                       IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                            Analysis Year                      2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT TOTAL

Project Description SAT TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS               North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South             Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                       Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                       4           5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                       L           T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                   725          260                     160         740                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95         0.95                    0.95        0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   763           273                    168         778                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --               --                  2           --                  --
Median Type                                                                              Rai
                                                                                           sed curb
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        1                    2             0                      1           2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T            TR                      L           T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                        Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8             9                      10         11                   12
                                             L                    T             R                       L          T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                                  1                     220                             205
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95          0.95                    0.95       0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0                1                  231             0               215
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2                2                   2           2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                               0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                                N
   Storage                                                        0                                                0
RT Channelized                                                                     0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                    0                0                   1              0                1
Configuration                                                    LR                                    L                               R
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                         Westbound                        Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                                 7              8            9      10            11            12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                L                           R                    LR
v (veh/h)                   5             168                               231                         215                    6
C (m) (veh/h)             831             667                               156                         556                  118
v/c                       0.01            0.25                              1.48                        0.39                 0.05
95% queue length          0.02            0.99                             15.11                        1.81                 0.16
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.4            12.2                             300.8                        15.5                 37.1
LOS                         A              B                                 F                           C                     E
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                              163.3                           37.1
Approach LOS                --              --                                                F                               E
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                             HCS+TM Version 5.6        Generated: 10/15/2013      2:00 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k83D4.tmp                                                                          10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                             CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                             VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM EXISTING

Project Description AM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                 4              5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                 L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                    405           110                30            625                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95              0.95           0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   426           115                31            657                   5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --         --             2                    --                   --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                       0
Lanes                                        1                    2          0              1                   2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T         TR              L                   T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                10            11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                 L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                     1              5                45            1                    20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95              0.95          0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    1             5                 47                1                21
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                 2              2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                              N
   Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                     0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                 0              1                    0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                             LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8               9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                 LTR
v (veh/h)                   5              31                                           69                                   7
C (m) (veh/h)              922            1024                                         411                                 421
v/c                       0.01            0.03                                         0.17                                0.02
95% queue length          0.02            0.09                                         0.60                                0.05
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.9             8.6                                         15.5                                13.7
LOS                         A               A                                           C                                   B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                         15.5                               13.7
Approach LOS                --              --                                          C                                   B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 10/7/2013   1:12 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                             CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                             VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    AM TOTAL

Project Description AM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS              North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                  4             5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                   460           115                 35           665                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95               0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                   484           121                 36           700                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --          --            2                    --                  --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                     0
Lanes                                        1                    2           0             1                    2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T          TR             L                    T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                 10           11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                  L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               1                    1              5                 50            1                   20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95               0.95         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    1             5                  52               1               21
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                  2             2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                              N
   Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                  0             1                   0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                             LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                     Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8               9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                 LTR
v (veh/h)                   5              36                                           74                                   7
C (m) (veh/h)             889             969                                          377                                 383
v/c                       0.01            0.04                                         0.20                                0.02
95% queue length          0.02            0.12                                         0.72                                0.06
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.1             8.9                                         16.9                                14.6
LOS                         A               A                                           C                                   B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                         16.9                               14.6
Approach LOS                --              --                                          C                                   B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.6          Generated: 10/15/2013      1:49 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k1FF9.tmp                                                                        10/15/2013
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                          Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                            CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                            VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                     IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                    2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM EXISTING

Project Description PM EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS               North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South             Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                    Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                 4             5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                 L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   825           120                25           620                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95              0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   868           126               26            652                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --          --            2                   --                  --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                    0
Lanes                                        1                    2           0             1                   2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T          TR             L                   T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                     Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                10           11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                 L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                    1             15                80            1                   35
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95              0.95         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    1            15                84                1               36
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                 2             2                  22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                            0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                             N
   Storage                                                        0                                             0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                   0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                 0             1                   0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                            LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                     Westbound                         Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8              9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                LTR
v (veh/h)                  10              26                                          121                                 21
C (m) (veh/h)             926             692                                          252                                399
v/c                       0.01            0.04                                         0.48                               0.05
95% queue length          0.03            0.12                                         2.41                               0.17
Control Delay (s/veh)      8.9            10.4                                         31.8                               14.5
LOS                         A              B                                            D                                  B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                         31.8                              14.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                          D                                  B
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                     HCS+TM Version 5.6            Generated: 10/15/2013      12:36 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k9A67.tmp                                                                       10/15/2013
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                             CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                             VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    PM TOTAL

Project Description PM TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS              North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South            Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                  4             5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                   935           130                 35           675                  5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95               0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                   984           136                 36           710                  5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --          --            2                    --                  --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                     0
Lanes                                        1                    2           0             1                    2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T          TR             L                    T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                 10           11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                  L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                               5                    1             15                 90            1                   35
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95               0.95         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    1            15                  94               1               36
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                  2             2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                              N
   Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                  0             1                   0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                             LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                     Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8               9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                 LTR
v (veh/h)                  10              36                                          131                                  21
C (m) (veh/h)             881             619                                          211                                 344
v/c                       0.01            0.06                                         0.62                                0.06
95% queue length          0.03            0.18                                         3.61                                0.19
Control Delay (s/veh)      9.1            11.2                                         46.5                                16.1
LOS                         A              B                                            E                                   C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                         46.5                               16.1
Approach LOS                --              --                                          E                                   C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.6          Generated: 10/15/2013      1:57 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k6816.tmp                                                                        10/15/2013
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
                                                                                                             CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                             VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT EXISTING

Project Description SAT EXISTING - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS                North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                 4              5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                 L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              45                   790           115                25            825                  20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95              0.95           0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            47                   831           121                26            868                  21
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --         --             2                    --                   --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                0                                                       0
Lanes                                        1                    2          0              1                   2                     0
Configuration                                L                    T         TR              L                   T                    TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                             0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                10            11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                 L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              20                    1             55               125            5                    35
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95              0.95          0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            21                    1            57                131                5                36
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                 2              2                   22
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                              N
   Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                     0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                 0              1                    0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                             LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                     1              4                              7             8               9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                 LTR
v (veh/h)                   47             26                                          172                                  79
C (m) (veh/h)              758            717                                          189                                 350
v/c                       0.06            0.04                                         0.91                                0.23
95% queue length          0.20            0.11                                         7.04                                0.85
Control Delay (s/veh)     10.1            10.2                                         94.4                                18.3
LOS                         B              B                                            F                                   C
Approach Delay (s/veh)       --             --                                         94.4                               18.3
Approach LOS                 --             --                                          F                                   C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 10/7/2013   1:20 PM
Two-Way Stop Control                                                                                                           Page 1 of 1



                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                                        Site Information
                                                                                                             CENTER DRIVE @ SKOKIE
 Analyst                                 ALL                               Intersection
                                                                                                             VALLEY
 Agency/Co.                              GHA
                                                                           Jurisdiction                      IDOT
 Date Performed                          10/7/2013
                                                                           Analysis Year                     2013
 Analysis Time Period                    SAT TOTAL

Project Description SAT TOTAL - HIGHLAND PARK CROSSROADS CENTER
East/West Street: CENTER CROSSROADS               North/South Street: SKOKIE VALLEY ROAD
Intersection Orientation: North-South             Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                     Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2             3                  4             5                   6
                                             L                     T             R                  L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              45                   930           135                 35           905                  20
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          0.95               0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            47                   978           142                 36           952                 21
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --          --            2                    --                  --
Median Type                                                                Two Way Left Turn Lane
RT Channelized                                                                 0                                                     0
Lanes                                        1                    2           0             1                    2                   0
Configuration                                L                    T          TR             L                    T                  TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                              0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                      Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                 10           11                   12
                                             L                    T              R                  L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              20                    1             55                140            1                   40
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95               0.95         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            21                    1            57                 147               1               42
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    2             2                  2             2                   2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                             0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                              N
   Storage                                                        0                                              0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                    0
Lanes                                        0                   1              0                  0             1                   0
Configuration                                                   LTR                                             LTR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound     Southbound                                     Westbound                          Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8               9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration          L               L                                          LTR                                 LTR
v (veh/h)                  47              36                                          190                                  79
C (m) (veh/h)             704             619                                          162                                 301
v/c                       0.07            0.06                                         1.17                                0.26
95% queue length          0.21            0.18                                        10.37                                1.03
Control Delay (s/veh)     10.5            11.2                                        181.2                                21.2
LOS                         B              B                                            F                                   C
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                        181.2                               21.2
Approach LOS                --              --                                          F                                   C
Copyright © 2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                         HCS+TM Version 5.6          Generated: 10/15/2013      2:01 PM




file:///C:/Users/alarson/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k88C6.tmp                                                                        10/15/2013
TABLE 4.1
Crossroads Shopping Center
WEEKEND SHARED PARKING ANALYSIS
Condition: Adding Grocery & Restaurant Space
                                                                                              Project Shared Parking Ratios
LAND USE                 Size                           SIZE                        Visitor            Employee        Total
Retail                             27,855               sf                                3                    1           4 per 1,000 s.f.

Resturant                           6,729               sf                            12.4                   2.6           15 per 1,000 s.f.




                                                                                                                   Restaurant                                                                     Restaurant                  Total -      Visitor +
            Time         Retail Customer         HOLD          HOLD            HOLD                 HOLD           Customer       HOLD         Total - Customer   Retail Employee          HOLD   Employee     HOLD   HOLD   Employee     Employee
          6:00 AM                1                 0             0               0                    0                 8           0                   9                 3                  0         9         0      0            12            21
          7:00 AM                4                 0             0               0                    0                21           0                  25                 4                  0        13         0      0            17            42
          8:00 AM                8                 0             0               0                    0                38           0                  46                11                  0        16         0      0            27            73
          9:00 AM               29                 0             0               0                    0                58           0                  88                21                  0        16         0      0            37           124
         10:00 AM               50                 0             0               0                    0                75           0                 125                24                  0        17         0      0            41           166
         11:00 AM               58                 0             0               0                    0                75           0                 134                26                  0        17         0      0            44           178
         12:00 PM               71                 0             0               0                    0                83           0                 154                28                  0        17         0      0            45           200
          1:00 PM               79                 0             0               0                    0                71           0                 150                28                  0        17         0      0            45           196
          2:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                54           0                 138                28                  0        17         0      0            45           183
          3:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                33           0                 117                28                  0        13         0      0            41           158
          4:00 PM               79                 0             0               0                    0                38           0                 117                28                  0        13         0      0            41           158
          5:00 PM               75                 0             0               0                    0                50           0                 125                26                  0        17         0      0            43           168
          6:00 PM               67                 0             0               0                    0                58           0                 125                24                  0        17         0      0            40           166
          7:00 PM               63                 0             0               0                    0                58           0                 121                22                  0        17         0      0            39           160
          8:00 PM               54                 0             0               0                    0                54           0                 109                21                  0        17         0      0            38           146
          9:00 PM               42                 0             0               0                    0                25           0                  67                18                  0        14         0      0            32            99
         10:00 PM               29                 0             0               0                    0                21           0                  50                13                  0        11         0      0            24            74
         11:00 PM               13                 0             0               0                    0                13           0                  25                 4                  0        11         0      0            16            41

                                                                  Unshared Demand
Retail                             27,855 s.f.          Visitor Spaces:                 84
                                                        Employee Spaces:                28                                                     Peak Parking Demand Tally
                                                                                                                                                               11am                 12am

                                                                                                                                               Existing           492               439
                                                                                                                                               New                178               200
Restaurant                          6,729 s.f.          Visitor Spaces:                 83                                                     Projected Total    670               639
                                                        Employee Spaces:                17
                                                                                                                                                                  Future Supply = 703
TABLE 4.2
Crossroads Shopping Center
WEEKDAY SHARED PARKING ANALYSIS
Condition: Adding Grocery & Restaurant Space
                                                                                              Project Shared Parking Ratios
LAND USE                 Size                           SIZE                        Visitor            Employee        Total
Retail                             27,855               sf                                3                    1           4 per 1,000 s.f.

Resturant                           6,729               sf                            12.4                   2.6           15 per 1,000 s.f.




                                                                                                                   Restaurant                                                              Restaurant                  Total -      Visitor +
            Time         Retail Customer         HOLD          HOLD            HOLD                 HOLD           Customer       HOLD         Total - Customer   Retail Employee   HOLD   Employee     HOLD   HOLD   Employee     Employee
          6:00 AM                1                 0             0               0                    0                 0           0                   1                 3           0         0         0      0             3             4
          7:00 AM                4                 0             0               0                    0                 0           0                   4                 4           0         3         0      0             8            12
          8:00 AM               13                 0             0               0                    0                 0           0                  13                11           0         9         0      0            20            32
          9:00 AM               25                 0             0               0                    0                 0           0                  25                21           0        13         0      0            34            59
         10:00 AM               46                 0             0               0                    0                13           0                  58                24           0        16         0      0            39            98
         11:00 AM               63                 0             0               0                    0                33           0                  96                26           0        16         0      0            42           138
         12:00 PM               75                 0             0               0                    0                63           0                 138                28           0        16         0      0            44           181
          1:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                63           0                 146                28           0        16         0      0            44           190
          2:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                54           0                 138                28           0        16         0      0            44           181
          3:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                33           0                 117                28           0        13         0      0            41           158
          4:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                42           0                 125                28           0        13         0      0            41           166
          5:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                63           0                 146                28           0        17         0      0            45           191
          6:00 PM               84                 0             0               0                    0                79           0                 163                28           0        17         0      0            45           208
          7:00 PM               63                 0             0               0                    0                83           0                 146                26           0        17         0      0            44           190
          8:00 PM               54                 0             0               0                    0                83           0                 138                25           0        17         0      0            43           180
          9:00 PM               42                 0             0               0                    0                83           0                 125                21           0        17         0      0            38           164
         10:00 PM               25                 0             0               0                    0                79           0                 104                11           0        17         0      0            29           133
         11:00 PM                8                 0             0               0                    0                63           0                  71                 4           0        17         0      0            22            93

                                                                  Unshared Demand
Retail                             27,855 s.f.          Visitor Spaces:                 84
                                                        Employee Spaces:                28                                                     Peak Parking Demand Tally
                                                                                                                                                               6pm

                                                                                                                                               Existing           457
                                                                                                                                               New                208
Restaurant                          6,729 s.f.          Visitor Spaces:                 83                                                     Projected Total    665
                                                        Employee Spaces:                17
                                                                                                                                               Future Supply = 703
