                                            PUBLIC NOTICE

In Accordance with the Statutes of the State of Illinois and the Ordinances of the City of Highland Park, a
Regular Meeting of the Highland Park Plan Commission is scheduled to be held at the hour of 7:30 P.M.
on Tuesday, November 19, 2013 at the Highland Park City Hall, 1707 St. Johns Avenue, Highland Park,
Illinois, during which it is anticipated there will be a discussion of the following:

                                           City of Highland Park
                                  Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                               Highland Park City Hall, 1707 St. Johns Avenue

                                            November 19, 2013

                                                 7:30 P.M.

                                      MEETING AGENDA (Revised)

I.        Call to Order

II.       Roll Call

III.      Approval of Minutes

       A. Regular Meeting of November 5, 2013

IV.       Scheduled Business

       A. Consideration of a Request to Extend the Required Deadline to Submit a Final Plan of
          Development in accordance with Section 150.535(C) for a Preliminarily Approved
          Commercial Planned Development and Conditional Use of a Gasoline Station with a
          Convenience Food Mart and Motor Vehicle Washing Facility at 1333 Half Day Road. The
          Plan Commission will consider a request to extend by 6 months the time period for submission of
          a Final Development Plan, from applicant Buchanan Energy, LLC as represented by Walter
          Hainsfurther AIA of Kurtz Associates Architects.

       B. Concurrent Public Hearings for 807- 833 Laurel Avenue:

          Public Hearing 12-05-REZ-001 for a proposed Zoning Map Amendment from RM1A
          Medium-to-High Density Multiple Family Residential District to RO High Density
          Residential/Office District; and,

          Public Hearing 12-05-PUD-002 for a Special Use in the nature of a Preliminary and Final
          Planned Development with Subdivision (12-05-SUB-002) for a Proposed 52-Unit Multiple
          Family Building to be Constructed in Two Phases, with Requested Modifications from the
          Zoning Requirements Regulating Front and Side Yard Setback, Building Height, and Lot
          Coverage.

          The Plan Commission will concurrently open these public hearings to accept public comment and
          then will discuss and deliberate on an application for Rezoning and Planned Development with
          Subdivision to construct a 52-unit multi-family residential building on 38,000 sq. ft., at 807-833
          Laurel Ave., as proposed by applicant Fulton Developers.
       C. Public Hearing 13-11-ZTA-006 for a Proposed Text Amendment to Chapter 150, Article
          XII of the City of Highland Park Zoning Code of 1997 (as Amended) to: Modify the List of
          Authorized Variations, Create an Administrative Variation Review Process; Create a
          Special Zoning Permit Process; and, Establish a One Year Waiting Period between
          Duplicate Applications for Zoning Relief. The Plan Commission will move to continue this
          item to a date certain without substantive discussion.

V.        Other Business
       A. Next Regular Meeting- December 3, 2013
       B. Case Briefing

VI.       Business from the Public

VII.      Adjournment




Posted at City Hall before 5:00 p.m. on November 15, 2013
                                 CITY OF HIGHLAND PARK
                                  Tuesday, November 5, 2013

                    MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF
            THE PLAN COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF HIGHLAND PARK, IL


MEETING DATE:                 Tuesday, November 5, 2013

MEETING LOCATION:             Council Chambers, City Hall, 1707 St. John's Avenue
                              Highland Park, IL

I.        CALL TO ORDER

At 7:30 PM Commissioner Glenner called the meeting to order and asked Director Fontane to
call the roll.

II.       ROLL CALL

Members Present: Bilotti, Glazer, Glenner, Kaplan, Reinstein

Members Absent: Rubin, Stolberg

Director Fontane took the roll and declared a quorum present.

Staff Present: Fontane, Sloan, Cross

Student Rep.: None

Council Liaison: Blumberg

III.      APPROVAL OF MINUTES

       A. Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission, October 15, 2013

          Commissioner Glenner entertained a motion to approve the minutes of the Regular
          Meeting of the Plan Commission held on October 15, 2013. A motion for approval was
          made by Commissioner Kaplan and seconded by Commissioner Reinstein. . On a voice
          vote, the minutes were approved unanimously. Commissioner Glazer voted present

IV.       SCHEDULED BUSINESS

       A. Consideration of Staff-Drafted Findings of Fact that Recommend to the City Council
          the Approval of a Proposed Conditional Use of a Sports Training Facility at 3570
          Western Avenue.

          Commissioner Glenner entertained a motion to approve the Findings of Fact that
          recommend approval. A motion to approve the Findings was made by Commissioner
          Kaplan then seconded by Commissioner Reinstein.
                                Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                      Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                                1 of 8
   Director Fontane called the roll:

   Ayes: Glazer, Bilotti, Kaplan, Reinstein, Glenner

   Nays: None

   Motion carried 5-0.

B. Pre-Application Discussion for a Proposed Amendment to the Planned Development
   of Crossroads Shopping Center at 113-229 Skokie Valley Rd. to: Modify the Parking
   and Site Plan; Construct a 1400 Sq. Ft. Building Addition; and, Grant an Exception
   to Section 150.408 to Allow the Use of Sale of Soft Drinks by Vending Machine
   Outside of a Building.

   Planner Cross made a presentation for the above item including: application summary,
   site plan modifications, building addition, outdoor sales, issues for consideration, parking
   and refuse, police and fire department concerns and recommendations.

   Mr. Steve Goodman, Meltzer, Purtill & Stelle, 300 S. Wacker Dr., Chicago, IL 60606,
   attorney for the applicant, stated he would take questions from the Commission.

   Commissioner Reinstein asked about the outdoor sales and the time limitations.

   Manager Sloan stated outdoor sales were allowed as an accessory use for 180 days per
   year and this time could be extended by the City Manager's office. The issue with the
   machines is that they are not associated with, as an accessory use, to any of the principal
   uses presently in the center. The center wants to do it on its own in a common area but
   does not possess a separate principal use.

   Commissioner Reinstein asked if the sales area it would be limited to pop machines.

   Manager Sloan stated the proposal is for pop machines only.

   Commissioner Reinstein asked where the locations were.

   Mr. Goodman stated one of them would be located on the north side of Party City and the
   other location is near LA Fitness.

   Commissioner Reinstein asked if these would be there during the temperate months.

   Mr. Goodman stated they would be there all winter.

   Manager Sloan stated it would be on a permanent basis.

   Commissioner Reinstein asked if it would be just these machines on a permanent basis.
   He asked if someone else wanted to install some machines would they have to go through
   the normal process.

                           Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                 Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                           2 of 8
Manager Sloan stated if one of the principal uses wanted to put something outside they
would apply for a permit.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if this would cover anything else.

Manager Sloan stated no.

Commissioner Reinstein asked what the distance was between the SW corner of new 1400
s.f. space and the curve of the drive. He asked if there would be an entry/exit point from
the retail space in this location.

Mr. Goodman they were in the preliminary planning stages and did not know.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if there were ongoing negotiations with the user.

Mr. Goodman stated there are ongoing discussions, and, that due to the existing tenancies
of the spaces that the tenant would occupy, they did not want to get too far ahead with
details and elevations. He estimated that construction would probably not start until 2015.

Commissioner Bilotti asked if the space was 27,000 sf., with an additional 7,000 sf. of
restaurant space or 7000 sf. within the grocery space, because he did not see it depicted on
the plan.

Mr. Goodman stated it is not depicted on the plan. They are saying in lieu of 7,000 s.f. of
retail, they are looking for the flexibility of adding up to an additional 7,000 s.f. of
restaurant space. There is nothing concrete at this time.

Commissioner Bilotti asked about the extension toward the street. He asked if the present
outdoor seating and bike racks would be removed.

Mr. Goodman stated the intention is to relocate as much as possible. The outdoor seating
is popular and they agree with the comments in the staff report regarding the need to
provide a buffer between the street and the outdoor seating. The seating area may be
reduced in size, but the intention is to keep it.

Commissioner Bilotti stated he hoped they would keep the bike racks.

Commissioner Kaplan stated there seemed to be enough parking on the north and south
side of the center. He asked that if a grocery store would occupy, would the north side
spaces be utilized. He stated it was important to know where the restaurant parking would
be located. He asked on which side of the building would be the entry for the grocery and
its parking.

Mr. Goodman replied this had not been determined.

Commissioner Kaplan stated in terms of parking concerns the location of the door might
soften concerns about parking and pedestrian conflicts. He stated the vending machines
were not uncommon and asked who would receive the income from the machines.

                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                        3 of 8
Manager Sloan stated she thought they would belong to Federal Realty.

Commissioner Kaplan stated with Binny's and the fitness center, he questioned the
sensibility and aesthetic appeal of having free standing vending machines. He stated he
was not particularly in favor of these, but did not think it was a huge issue.

Mr. Brian Donley, Federal Realty, 50 E. Wynnewood Rd., Wynnewood, PA, the
applicant, stated the vending machines are a national deal between Federal Realty and
Coke. These are located in shopping centers all over the country.

Commissioner Kaplan asked if there was any sales tax implication.

Manager Sloan stated the applicant could supply this information. She stated the use of
the entire center is related to the ability to meet parking demand. At the next meeting part
of the discussion would be about the total amount of parking and amount of parking
demand.

Commissioner Glenner stated the applicant may come back and advise the impact of the
grocery store and also the positive impacts for strengthening the other tenants in the area
by the presence of the grocery store.

Manager Sloan stated grocery stores have taxable and non-taxable items but she was not
sure about the sales tax net change, but that this is something that could also be supplied at
public hearing..

Commissioner Glazer mentioned the number of spaces and that the drive aisles were
narrower than required by code. He asked if the police had concerns regarding this.

Manager Sloan stated they would review this and they were mostly concerned about the
fire lane access.

Commissioner Glazer asked if this would require relief.

Manager Sloan stated the point of a PUD is to be flexible and allow relief. If aisles are
less than required it would need relief.

Planner Cross stated the previous drive aisles were one-way each way and they have
reconfigured it to have two-way traffic and 90 stalls. The fire and police departments
have not had the opportunity to review the site plan. The deficiency is 3". He stated the
Commission has the authority to recommend a grant of relief to these specifications.
Copies of the new plans will be sent to the police and fire departments.

Mr. Dan Brinkman, Gewalt Hamilton Associates, 850 Forest Edge Dr., Vernon Hills, IL,
traffic consultant, stated the dimensions on the 90 aisle are 25'-5" and the city ordinance
states 25'-8". He did not think this would be a problem.

Commissioner Glazer asked about the restaurant and where it would be located.



                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                        4 of 8
Mr. Goodman replied it was conceptual in nature at this time and could be in any number
of spaces in the center as tenant leases expire.

Commissioner Glazer asked if it would be adjacent to the grocery.

Mr. Goodman replied it could be but at present it is not intended to be.

Commissioner Bilotti stated there is some vacancy there now.

Manager Sloan stated the Applicant is trying to allocate the parking so they have the
flexibility to go from a retail tenant to a restaurant tenant in the future. The parking
calculations are currently based on the existing configuration in the center which has two
restaurants. Restaurants have a higher parking requirement than retail.

Mr. Donley stated the most likely space for a restaurant is between the new space and
Binny's.

Commissioner Glazer asked about the possible need for enhanced sanitation services.

Mr. Goodman stated the applicant has an existing refuse removal program and the new
tenant would adhere to that program. Some groceries have their own removal program
and they would consider their program.

Commissioner Glazer asked about compost and if this is something they would consider.

Mr. Goodman stated they would work with staff and consider what is proposed. It is
something the new tenant would need to be comfortable with if it made sense.

Commissioner Kaplan mentioned the bicycle parking and thought it would be helpful if
there were multiple bike parking locations dispersed throughout the development.

Mr. Goodman stated they could look into it.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if there is sufficient parking for peak and non-peak with
the new proposed uses.

Mr. Brinkman stated this was correct and they had looked at peak demands for the
existing center and calculated the peak demands for the proposed center.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if the City had in-house staff to review these studies.

Manager Sloan stated it does, but sometimes third party review is used and it is likely for
is applicaiton.

Commissioner Reinstein asked if this could be done now.

Manager Sloan stated they normally wait until they have the full application so they have
all the details.

                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                        5 of 8
Commissioner Glazer stated he thought this was a worthy project and they should look at
the parking study to see if the City agrees with the study or if a closer look is necessary.

Commissioner Bilotti asked if the land bank is sufficient to cover the additional parking
demands and if they need a parking study.

Manager Sloan stated the land bank is unbuilt. They may submit the application with the
intent to build out the land bank or not.

Commissioner Bilotti asked how many spaces there were in the land bank.

Manager Sloan stated there were 41 spaces.

Commissioner Glenner stated the applicant is focused on parking. He wanted to hear
about the shared parking, employee parking, re-striping and easements to the south. He
appreciated the applicant's efforts.

Manager Sloan stated the center is subject to cross access agreements and some triggers
for evaluating the need for a signal at the center aisle as a result of when Thorntons was
established. She thought that these obligations were satisfied, but it is possible that this
issue may need to be revisited with the new uses in the center.

Commissioner Glenner asked about the grocery and if they had been identified.

Ms. Sloan stated that the grocery tenant has asked for confidentiality at this time.

Councilman Blumberg mentioned the notice, distance requirements, and who needed to be
notified.

Manager Sloan stated all owners within 400' had to be notified.

Councilman Blumberg asked about current policy considerations regarding outdoor
vending machines.

Manager Sloan stated the code allows infinite extensions and cited Red Box at Walgreens
as an example.

Councilman Blumberg asked what Red Boxes were.

Manager Sloan replied they were video rentals.

Councilman Blumberg asked if this was something that disturbed a portion of the
population.

Manager Sloan stated she did know that Vice Chair Stolberg is not in favor of vending
machines and thinks they attract problems, i.e., break-ins, litter, etc. One concern is
depending on which way the machines are oriented, they serve as illuminated signage like
billboards, or off-site signage, for which there are some sign code issues. There have been
some businesses that have never sought a permit for these machines.
                        Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                              Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                        6 of 8
         Councilman Blumberg stated these were policy considerations which would be addressed.
         He was interested in hearing the public reaction.

         Commissioner Glenner asked if there were additional questions from the Commission and
         thanked the applicant for attending the meeting.

V.       OTHER BUSINESS

      A. Next Regular Meeting - November 19, 2013.

      B. Case Briefing.

         10/28/13 - City Council Adopted an Ordinance Amending a Special Use Permit for the
         Installation and Construction of Personal Wireless Communications Facilities at the
         Water Tower 1814 Green Bay Rd.

         10/28/13 - City Council Adopted an Ordinance Amending Chapter 150, Article II of the
         "City of Highland Park Zoning Ordinance of 1997", as amended , regarding the definition
         of "Kennel."

         10/28/13 - City Council Adopted an Ordinance Amending a Special Use Permit for a
         Conditional Use for an Assistive Technology Center and Child Care Facility at 760-788
         Red Oak Lane.

         10/28/13 - City Council Considered, and Did Not Approve Findings of Fact
         Recommending Denial of #13-08-REZ-001, a Proposed Zoning Map Amendment to
         Rezone the Properties known as 735, 737, 739 Broadview Avenue, 730 Pleasant Avenue
         (Units 1,2,3), 615, 625, 643, 647 651 and 653 Roger Williams Avenue into the B2
         Ravinia Commercial Zoning District.

         10/28/13 - City Council Considered and Did Not Approve Findings of Fact that
         Recommend the Approval of #13-08-ZTA-003, Proposed Test Amendments to Chapter
         150, Article IV of the City of Highland Park Zoning Code of 1997 (as Amended) to
         Modify the List of Permitted and Conditional Uses in the B2 Ravinia Commercial Zoning
         District and the B2-RW Ravinia Commercial Overlay Zone.

VI.      BUSINESS FROM THE PUBLIC

         There was none.

VII.     ADJOURNMENT

         Commissioner Glenner entertained a motion to adjourn. Commissioner Glazer so
         motioned which was seconded by Commissioner Reinstein. On a voice vote, the motion
         passed unanimously.

         The Plan Commission adjourned at 8:25 PM.

                                Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                      Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                                7 of 8
Respectfully submitted,
Joel Fontane, Director




                          Regular Meeting of the Plan Commission
                                Tuesday, November 5, 2013
                                          8 of 8
                      REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION


DATE REFERRED:                            November 19, 2013

ORIGINATED BY:                            Department of Community Development

SUBJECT:                                  Consideration of a Request to Extend the Required Deadline to Submit a
                                          Final Plan of Development in accordance with Section 150.535(C) for a
                                          Preliminarily Approved Commercial Planned Development and
                                          Conditional Use of a Gasoline Station with a Convenience Food Mart
                                          and Motor Vehicle Washing Facility at 1333 Half Day Road


SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND OF SUBJECT MATTER:

Applicant/Owners:               Buchanan Energy, LLC
                                4973 Dodge Street
                                Omaha, Nebraska 68132

Representative:                 Walter Hainsfurther, Kurtz
                                Associates Architects

Site Location:                  1333 Half Day Rd.

Site Area:                      54,907 sq. ft.
                                (1.26 acres)

Planning District:              Skokie Highway Corridor

Current Zoning:                 B3 Highway Commercial
                                District

Current Uses:                   Gasoline station with 5 fuel pumps, an attendant kiosk and motor vehicle
                                washing facility

Proposed Uses:                  Gasoline station with 8 fuel pumps, convenience food mart, motor vehicle
                                washing facility and outdoor sales space


                                                     Direction                         Land Use                           Zoning
Surrounding Zoning                                                            Highway Commercial and
and Land Uses:                                          North                                                           B3 and R6
                                                                              Single-Family Residential
                                                                                 US-41 and Highway
                                                        West                                                                 B3
                                                                                   Commercial Uses
                                                                                Illinois Department of
                                                                               Transportation Property,
                                                        South                                                           B3 and R1
                                                                                  and Park District of
                                                                               Highland Park Property
                                                         East                 Single-Family Residential                      R6



k:\plan commission 2012\#12-06-pud-002 and #12-06-sup-001 bucky's gas station at 1333 half day road\plan commission\extension request   1
11-19-13\final documents\buckys extension request staff report 11-19-13.docx
                      REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

                                                       Proposed Use                                Required               Proposed
Required                                    Gasoline Station/Convenience Food
Off-Street                                                                                      12                   12
                                            Mart/Outdoor Sales Space
Parking:                                    Motor Vehicle Washing Facility                      15                   16
                                            TOTAL                                               27                   28 (+1)
Project
Description:                    Demolition of an existing gasoline station, attendant kiosk, and motor vehicle
                                washing facility and construction of a new gasoline station, convenience food
                                mart without outdoor patio, motor vehicle washing facility and outdoor sales
                                space

Process:                        Planned Development and Conditional Use Permit

PREVIOUS CONSIDERATION:

In December 2010, the applicant, Buchanan Energy Company, purchased 81 Exxon Mobil gasoline
stations in the Chicago market, including the existing one at 1333 Half Day Road. The current gasoline
station use is authorized and guided by a Special Use Permit that was granted in 1978 (Ordinance No. 30-
78). As a new owner, the applicant is seeking to invest in and improve the property through the voluntary
Planned Unit Development process. The improvements would consist of:

          1) the demolition of the existing structures, which include 5 fuel pumps, an attendant kiosk, and a
          motor vehicle washing facility; and,

          2) the construction of a new gasoline station with 8 "dive-in" style fuel pumps, a 4,706 sq. ft.
          convenience food mart and a 2,282 sq. ft. motor vehicle washing facility that can wash 3 cars at
          any given time.

On January 15, 2013, the Plan Commission conducted a Public Hearing (#12-06-PUD-002 and #12-06-
SUP-001) to consider the proposed Planned Development and Conditional Use for a gasoline station with
a convenience food mart and motor vehicle washing facility at the subject property. No members of the
public were present to comment on the proposal. The Plan Commission considered the proposal under the
standards in Articles V and XIV of the Zoning Code and voted (6-0) to direct staff to draft Findings of
Fact recommending City Council approval of the proposal on several conditions (outlined below).

City Council

The Plan Commission's recommended conditions were considered by the City Council on April 8, 2013,
at which point the Council directed Corporation Counsel to prepare the necessary approval documents.
On May 13, 2013, the City Council adopted a Resolution (#R66-13) to approve a Preliminary
Development Plan for the site on the following conditions:

         The applicant will provide the following public benefits in exchange for the requested relief: 1)
          the extension of the sidewalk on the subject property to connect the existing sidewalk to the
          northeastern corner of Skokie Valley Road and Half Day Road; and, 2) a signalized crosswalk to
          connect the north and south sides of Half Day Road east of Skokie Valley Road

         The applicant will be required to plant the required number of inches of trees required as a result
          of the tree removal at the subject property (or the payment of a fee-in-lieu) as determined by the
          City Forester

k:\plan commission 2012\#12-06-pud-002 and #12-06-sup-001 bucky's gas station at 1333 half day road\plan commission\extension request   2
11-19-13\final documents\buckys extension request staff report 11-19-13.docx
                      REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION



         Prior to approval of a Final Plan of Development, the applicant must secure a cross-access
          agreement with the property at 2635 Skokie Valley Road to allow retention of the existing
          ingress/egress point in perpetuity or for a lesser term acceptable to the City Council

         Prior to approval of a Final Plan of Development, the applicant must secure permission from the
          Illinois Department of Transportation to: 1) remove the existing westernmost ingress/egress point
          and widen the existing easternmost ingress/egress point on Half Day Road; and, 2) install a
          signalized crosswalk to connect the north and south sides of Half Day Road east of Skokie Valley
          Road

         Prior to approval of a Final Plan of Development, the applicant must secure the City Engineer's
          approval for a drainage and utility plan including the provision of adequate stormwater detention
          volume

         Prior to approval of a Final Plan of Development, the applicant must work with City staff to
          identify the appropriate locations on the subject property for the underground tank venting system
          stacks and the monument signage

         The petitioner shall meet all of the requirements of Article V of Chapter 150 of the Highland Park
          Municipal Code for the filing of a Final Plan of Development

         The motor vehicle washing facility will be closed during the hours of 11 p.m. and 5 a.m.

POLICY:

As noted, the applicant received approval of a Preliminary Planned Development and Commercial Use
pursuant to a Resolution adopted by the City Council on May 13, 2013. Section 150.535 of the Zoning
Code outlines the filing requirements for a Final Development Plan application, and requires the applicant
to initiate the "second stage" of the Planned Development process by submitting specific documents and
information for Plan Commission review within six months of approval by the City Council. The six
month deadline to submit the required documents for the application is November 13, 2013.

Section 150.535(C) of the Zoning Code affords applicants the ability to submit a written request for an
extension of this deadline, and notes that "the Plan Commission, for good cause, may extend the period
for filing the Final Development Plan for a period not to exceed an additional six months."Per the
attached letter submitted by the applicant, dated November 1, 2013, the applicant is requesting Plan
Commission consideration of a six month extension to file the Final Development Plan application
materials to enable the applicant to continue its negotiations for a cross-access easement with the
neighbor to the north and to address recent comments from the Illinois Department of Transportation
(IDOT).

If the Plan Commission grants the applicant's request for a six month extension, the applicant will be
required to submit all materials for Plan Commission consideration by May 13, 2014. In the instance that
the applicant does not file the Final Development Plan within the allotted extended time period, Section
150.535(D) notes the following:

          (D)      Failure to File. Upon the failure of the applicant to file a complete Final Development
          Plan, in accordance with this Section 150.535, within six months of approval by the City Council


k:\plan commission 2012\#12-06-pud-002 and #12-06-sup-001 bucky's gas station at 1333 half day road\plan commission\extension request   3
11-19-13\final documents\buckys extension request staff report 11-19-13.docx
                      REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

          of the preliminary Development Plan, or within the extended period approved by the Plan
          Commission pursuant to Section 150.535(C) of this Article, the Preliminary Development Plan
          approval by the City Council shall be considered null and void and of no force or effect.

RECOMMENDATION:

The Department of Community Development recommends that the Plan Commission consider the
applicant's request for a time extension to submit the Final Development Plan. If the Commission finds
that an extension for the filing should be granted, it is recommended that the Plan Commission should
move to extend the deadline for submittal for a period of six months, in accordance with Section
150.535(C) of the Zoning Code.

DOCUMENTS ATTACHED:

         Applicant's Request for a Filing Extension, November 1, 2013
         Resolution No. R66-13




k:\plan commission 2012\#12-06-pud-002 and #12-06-sup-001 bucky's gas station at 1333 half day road\plan commission\extension request   4
11-19-13\final documents\buckys extension request staff report 11-19-13.docx
November 1, 2013


Ms. Barbara E. Cates
Department of Community Development
City of Highland Park
1150 Half Day Road
Highland Park, IL 60035

via email, bcates@cityhpil.com, and us mail

Re:       Bucky's Gas Station
          Highland Park, IL - 1333 Half Day Road
          Kurtz Project No. 12003

Dear Ms. Cates:

On May 13, 2013, the City Council adopted a Resolution approving a
Preliminary Planned Unit Development for the reconstruction of the
referenced facility. The Zoning Ordinance requires that the applicant file an
application for a Final Development Plan within six (6) months of that date.

As the staff is aware, we have been negotiating the extension of our cross
access agreement with the owner of the adjoining property to our west.
We have recently been informed that IDOT has requested them to close the
driveway that serves the cross access. We are working with IDOT and our
neighbor to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution, however, at this time
that is not finalized.

On behalf of our client, Buchanan Energy, LLC, we hereby request a six
month extension to file our Final Development Plan, as allowed by Section
150.535(A) of the Zoning Code.

We will continue to keep the City updated on our progress.


Sincerely,

KURTZ ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS



Walter Hainsfurther, FAIA


ec        Richard McM ahon, Buchanan Energy




W JHjk
R:\Bucky's\Highland Park_12003\12003_buckyHighlandPark~pudExtension-Nov1-2013.wpd
                                         CITY OF HIGHLAND PARK
                                          RESOLUTION NO. R66-13
                A RESOLUTION APPROVING A PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                                   (1333 Half Day Road)

       WHEREAS, Buchanan Energy (N), LLC ("Applicant") is the record owner of that certain parcel of real
property consisting of approximately 1.26 acres, located in the B3 Highway Commercial District of the City ("B3
District"), commonly known as 1333 Half Day Road, Highland Park, Illinois, and legally described in Exhibit A
attached to and, by this reference, made a part of this Resolution ("Property"); and

       WHEREAS, the Property is currently improved with a gas station equipped with five fuel pumps, an
attendant kiosk, and a car wash ("Existing Development"); and

       WHEREAS, the Applicant desires to demolish the Existing Development on the Property, and to
construct a gas station equipped with eight fuel pumps, a convenience store, a car wash ("Car Wash"), and
outdoor space to be used for the sale of goods on the Property (collectively, the "Proposed Development"); and

        WHEREAS, the Proposed Development contemplates work by the Applicant in rights-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation ("IDOT"); and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 150.505(E) of the "City of Highland Park Zoning Ordinance of 1997," as
amended ("Zoning Code"), the Applicant has voluntarily elected to seek approval of a special use permit for a
planned development in order to construct the Proposed Development; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Article V of the Zoning Code, the Applicant has filed an application with the
City for approval of: (i) a planned development for the Property; and (ii) certain zoning modifications within the
planned development; and

        WHEREAS, a public hearing of the Plan Commission of the City of Highland Park to consider approval
of a planned development for the Property was duly advertised on December 24, 2012 in the Lake County News-
Sun, opened on January 15, 2013, and concluded on February 5, 2013; and

       WHEREAS, on February 5, 2013, the Plan Commission adopted Findings of Fact, Public Hearing Nos.
#12-06-PUD-002 and #12-06-SUP-001, recommending to the City Council preliminary approval of the planned
development for the Property; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it will serve and be in the best interest of the City
and its residents to approve the preliminary development plan for the Property;

    NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HIGHLAND PARK, LAKE
COUNTY, ILLINOIS, as follows:

        SECTION ONE:             RECITALS. The foregoing recitals are incorporated into, and made a part of,
this Resolution as findings of the City Council.

         SECTION TWO:         APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The preliminary
development plan for the proposed planned development on the Property, consisting of the following documents
(collectively, "Preliminary Development Plan"), shall be, and is hereby, approved:

               A.      The Site Plan, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by ARC Design Resources, Inc., with a
               latest revision date of March 7, 2013, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference, made
               a part of this Resolution as Exhibit B;
              B.      The Landscape Plan, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by ARC Design Resources, Inc.,
              with a latest revision date of March 7, 2013, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference,
              made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit C;

              C.      The Tree Preservation Plan, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by ARC Design
              Resources, Inc., with a latest revision date of August 13, 2012, a copy of which is attached to and,
              by this reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit D;

              D.      The Aerial Exhibit, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by ARC Design Resources, Inc.,
              with a latest revision date of April 27, 2012, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference,
              made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit E;

              E.      The South Canopy Elevation, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Kurtz Associates
              Architects, as approved by the City Design Review Commission on March 4, 2013, a copy of
              which is attached to and, by this reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit F;

              F.      The Exterior Building Elevations, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Robert W. Engel
              and Associates, with a latest revision date of November 2, 2012, a copy of which is attached to
              and, by this reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit G;

              G.      The Front Elevation, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Bucky's, with a latest revision
              date of February 7, 2013, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference, made a part of
              this Resolution as Exhibit H;

              H.      The Side Elevations, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Bucky's, with a latest revision
              date of February 7, 2013, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference, made a part of
              this Resolution as Exhibit I;

              I.      The Back Elevation, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Bucky's, with a latest revision
              date of February 7, 2013, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference, made a part of
              this Resolution as Exhibit J;

              J.      The Floor Plans and Notes, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by Robert W. Engel and
              Associates, with a latest revision date of November 2, 2012, a copy of which is attached to and,
              by this reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit K;

              K.     Those certain plans comprising the Sign Plan, consisting of 7 sheets and prepared by
              Omaha Neon Sign Co., Inc., with a latest revision date of March 12, 2013, copies of which are
              attached to and, by this reference, made a part of this Resolution as Group Exhibit L;

              L.      The Fuel Pump Designs, consisting of 2 sheets and prepared by LSI Graphic Solutions
              Plus, with a latest revision date of October 28, 2008, a copy of which is attached to and, by this
              reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit M;

              M.      The Lighting Proposal, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by LSI Industries, with a
              latest revision date of November 30, 2012, a copy of which is attached to and, by this reference,
              made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit N; and

              N.      The Site Utility Plan, consisting of 1 sheet and prepared by ARC Design Resources, Inc.,
              with a latest revision date of November 5, 2012, a copy of which is attached to and, by this
              reference, made a part of this Resolution as Exhibit O;

SECTION THREE: ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF REQUEST FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS. The
City Council hereby acknowledges that the Applicant has requested, and that the proposed planned
development contemplates, issuance by the City of special use permits for a conditional use to permit the



                                                       2
operation of a gasoline and diesel fuel station and of a motor vehicle washing facility on the Property. At the
time of consideration of a final development plan for the planned development, the City Council shall consider
the requested special use permits in accordance with, and pursuant to, Section 150.411 and Article XIV of the
Zoning Code.

SECTION FOUR:          ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF REQUEST FOR ZONING MODIFICATIONS AND
CITY CODE RELIEF. Pursuant to Section 150.530(I)(1)(b) of the Zoning Code, the City Council hereby
acknowledges that the Applicant has requested, and that the proposed planned development contemplates, the
following modifications from the Zoning Code and the following relief from the City Code:

A.      A variation from Section 93.235(G) of "The Highland Park Code of 1968", as amended ("City Code"), to
increase the permitted width of the driveway located at the property line of the Property abutting Half Day
Road, from 30 feet to 52 feet;

B.      A modification from Section 150.408(B)(3) of the Zoning Code to permit utilization of the outdoor sales
area of the Proposed Development throughout each year;

C.      A modification from Section 150.707(A)(8) of the Zoning Code to permit the construction of an otherwise-
prohibited fence in a required front yard;

D.     A modification from Section 150.707(D)(1) of the Zoning Code to permit the otherwise-prohibited
construction of an accessory structure in a required front yard;

E.     A modification from Section 150.808(D)(6)(a) of the Zoning Code to decrease the number of required
stacking spaces at the entrance of the Car Wash, from 30 spaces to 11 spaces; and

F.     A modification from Section 150.707(H) to permit the installation of a monument sign within the
required sight triangle located on the Property at the intersection of the Route 41 and Half Day Road rights-of-
way ("Proposed Monument Sign").

At the time of consideration of a final development plan for the planned development, the City Council shall
consider the requested modifications and relief in accordance with, and pursuant to, Article V of the Zoning
Code.

       SECTION FIVE:           SUBMISSION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Pursuant to and in
accordance with Section 150.535(A) of the Zoning Code, the adoption of this Resolution authorizes the Applicant
to submit a final development plan for the Property to the Plan Commission of the City.

SECTION SIX:            EFFECT OF APPROVALS. Pursuant to Section 150.530(I)(2) of the Zoning Code, the
approval of the Preliminary Development Plan for the Property, as set forth in Section Two of this Resolution,
shall not be deemed or interpreted as authorizing or entitling the development or the improvement of the
Property in any manner whatsoever unless and until the City Council approves, by ordinance or resolution duly
adopted, as the case may be, a special use permit for a planned development and a final development plan for
the Property, pursuant to Section 150.540(C) of the Zoning Code. Nothing herein shall be deemed or interpreted
as obligating or requiring the City Council to approve a special use permit or final development plan. Further,
the City Council shall have no obligation to consider or approve a special use permit for a planned development
or final development plan unless and until:

               A.     The Applicant complies with the applicable procedures for review and approval of a final
               development plan for the Property, as set forth in Sections 150.535 and 150.540 of the Zoning
               Code, which plan shall include, without limitation, a waste reduction and recycling plan for the
               Proposed Development, as required pursuant to Section 171.041 of the City Code;

               B.     The Applicant prepares and submits a final landscaping plan for the Property, for review
               and approval by the City Forester; and



                                                       3
            C.      The Applicant prepares and submits a stormwater drainage plan for the Property, for
            review and approval by the City Engineer, by which plan adequate stormwater detention volume
            shall be provided on the Property.

       SECTION SEVEN: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. Approval of a final development plan for the
Property shall be expressly conditioned upon the following:

            A.      Development Agreement. The Applicant shall enter into a development agreement with
            the City, to be prepared by the City's Corporation Counsel and subject to the approval of the City
            Council ("Development Agreement"), which Development Agreement shall govern and restrict
            the use and development of the Property, and shall contain, at a minimum and without
            limitation, the following provisions, conditions, and restrictions:

                   1.     The Applicant shall install a sidewalk on the north side of Half Day Road,
                   extending to the west from the existing sidewalk located on the north side of Half Day
                   Road to the intersection of Skokie Valley Road and Half Day Road ("Sidewalk");

                   2.      The Applicant shall install a signalized pedestrian crosswalk at the intersection
                   of Half Day Road and Skokie Valley Road, connecting the north and south sides of Half
                   Day Road along the east side of Skokie Valley Road ("Crosswalk");

                   3.      Prior to the issuance of any construction or demolition permit, the Applicant
                   shall cause to be fully executed, and shall comply with all terms and conditions of, a
                   cross-access agreement with the owner of the property located at 2635 Skokie Valley
                   Road for cross-access for the Property to allow for ingress to and egress from the
                   Property, as depicted in the Preliminary Development Plan ("Cross-Access Agreement");

                   4.       The Applicant shall install venting system stacks for underground tanks, in
                   specific locations that will minimize any adverse impact on nearby residential properties,
                   as mutually determined by the City and the Applicant;

                   5.      The Proposed Monument Sign shall be installed in a specific location that will
                   minimize visual obstructions to vehicles and pedestrians,        to minimize visual
                   obstructions for vehicles and pedestrians, as mutually determined by the City and the
                   Applicant;

                   6.      The Applicant shall not operate the Car Wash on the Property prior to 5:00 a.m.
                   and after 11:00 p.m. on any day;

                   7.      The Applicant shall cooperate in good faith with the City to monitor the adequacy
                   of stormwater detention volume on the Property and the release of stormwater from the
                   Property into the City storm sewer system, and shall comply with all applicable laws
                   relating to the improvement of stormwater detention volume on the Property and the
                   control of the release of stormwater into the City storm sewer system;

                   8.      The Applicant shall comply with the applicable tree replacement provisions set
                   forth in Chapter 94 of the City Code; and

                   9.      In addition to any other costs, payments, fees, charges, contributions, or
                   dedications required by the City's codes, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, or by
                   the Development Agreement, the Applicant shall pay to the City, immediately upon
                   presentation a written demand or demands therefor, all legal, engineering, and other
                   consulting or administrative fees, costs, and expenses incurred or accrued in connection
                   with the review and processing of the plans for the Proposed Development and in




                                                    4
                       connection with the negotiation, preparation, consideration, and review of the
                       Development Agreement.

                B.       IDOT Approval for Work in the Rights-of-Way. Prior to the issuance of any construction
                or demolition permit, the Applicant shall obtain all necessary permits and approvals from IDOT
                for: (1) installation of the Sidewalk; (2) installation of the Crosswalk; and (3) any and all other
                work requiring permits and approvals from IDOT as set forth in the Preliminary Development
                Plan.

SECTION EIGH'[':        TIME PERIOD FOR SUBMISSION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The final
development plan for the Property shall be submitted by the Applicant for review and approval by the City no
later than the date that is six months after the effective date of this Resolution, in accordance with and
pursuant to Section l.50.535(A) of the Zoning Code. Pursuant to Section 150.535(C) of the Zoning Code, upon
the written request of the Applicant, the Plan Commission, for good cause, may extend the period for filing the
final development plan for a period not to exceed an additional six months.

SECTION NINE: EFFECTIVE DATE. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
approval by a majority of the members of the City Council.

AYES:                     Mayor Rotering, Councilmen Stone, Kaufman, Frank, Blumberg, Naftzger, and
                          Knobel

NAYS:                      None

ABSENT:                    None

PASSED:                    May 13, 2013

APPROVED:                  May 13, 2013

RESOLUTION NO.             R66-13




Ghida S. Neukirch, City Clerk
ff22912163_v4




                                                         5
           EXHIBIT A
Legal Description of the Property




               6
Lot 10 in Block 1 in Highland Park Highlands Fourth Addition, Being a Subdivision of Part of Lots 9, 10
and 11 in School Trustee's Subdivision of Section 16 and Part of the Northwester Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 15, Township 43 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal Meridian
According to the Plat Thereof, Recorded March 18, 1960 as Document 1063607 in Book 35 of Plats,
Page 20 in Lake County, Illinois, commonly known as 1333 Half Day Road, Highland Park, Illinois.

Also being described as: Lot 10, Block 1, Highland Park Highlands Fourth Addition, City of Highland
Park, Lake County, Illinois, Being More Particularly Described as Follows:

Beginning at the Southeast Comer of Said Lot 10; Thence N89 Degrees 27' 15"W, 275.00 Feet; Thence
NOO Degrees OO'OO"E, 203.52 Feet; Thence N90 Degrees 00'00" 201.90 Feet; Thence 83.47 Feet Along
the Arc of a Curve to the Left Having a Radius of 149.42 Feet and a Long Chord Subtended Bearing S65
Degrees 05'30" E, 82.38 Feet; Thence SOO Degrees 32'45" W, 171.45 Feet to the Point of Beginning.
EXHIBITB
Site Plan




   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 : I
                                                                                  BOLLARD D즆AIL                                  LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                    AR( 'F'' C (~ ! f""- '\ !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~~)Lh  ... ,.H.,.;:;if 1'
                                                                                                                              *ALL PAVEMENT DIMENSIONS REFERENCE THE FACE OF CURB WHERE CURB IS PROPOSED                                                                                                                              /            ~ESOURCES             INC.
                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                PAVEMENT SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       uw                          PROPOSED STRIPING                                       _ . - /                 I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~291 ZENITH PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                     1-..'.'::1               CONCRETE SIDEWALK I HEAVY DUTY                                              @                      NUMBER OF PROPOSED PARKING SPACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAINTED YELLOW STRIPES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOVES PARK, IL 61111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VOICE: (815) 484- 4300
                                                                                                                                                                CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.                 PROPOSED HANDICAP PARKING SYMBOLS                                                I FAX: (815) 484-4303
                                                                                                                                     l///I                      STANDARD DUTY CONCRETE PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                                      I www.ircdail9n-com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Detlgn !Tm Uc:ensa No.184-001334
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING LIGHT POLE                                                              I


                                     ---     EXISTING BUILDING

                                            -------------~
                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                     tiif;쬯il~
                                                                                                                                                                OUIDOOR SALES AREA

                                                                                                                                                                OPEN SPACE USED WITHIN 5' OF
                                                                                                                                                                VUA USED FOR LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                WITH VUA CALCULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGNAL MAST ARM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER'S NAME



                      R-6 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL                                                                                                            PROPOSED CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER -                                        X-         X-           FENCE                                                         BUCKY'S
                                                                                                                              ""' "' ;:; ;;; ;;; ;;o ;;; ;;;    EXISTING CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                  ZONING INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                                             HIGHLAND PARK, IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HALF DAY ROAD (IL
           PLANNED                                                                                                                           ~i~~-.     ____ . Ad~~es~:                                            1~~3.1:-'_~1[ C'.-~~!_ tJIQ~l_an~ f'.a~ .. 1.~                                                               RTE 22) & SKOKIE
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT                           N 90'00'00" E
   BY OTHERS (CURB)              x -x -x --201-;90~        -lb                                                                                                  Ei1S-tiiliiOnfnQ:__ _                              B:J,-HiQh\~ay톍ommeroia(aSttfCf                                                                               HIGHWAY (U.S. 41)
                                   OPEN SPACE USED WITHIN 5' OF ~ 11
                                                                                                                                                                REi9Uim~~ zon1n9~-     -                           s~.-렁fo~ay-c~mere1~ra~1[iCC                   --
                                   VUA USED FOR LAl'DSCAPING       =' ~
                                                                                                                                                                Site Area:                                                ~.907              SF                              1.26           Acre
                                   WITH V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RICHARD MCMAHON
                                                                                                                                                               . F.A.R Not to- Exc:-aed:                                    .NIA       .     SF                              NIA            Acre                                      5412 REGENTS PARK ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                  --- -렁 ---렁 _.. F.A}lPioPOSec{:                    -11,35i           --sF-                         톙.2ir- -Acre--                                            ROCKFORD, IL 61107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHONE (402} 71 B-6724
                                                                                                                                                                Structure Maximum Height:                                    45'
                                                                                                                                                                         Hefght of Proposed Stnrcturas:                17' (Bulle/Ing)          24' (SJgnage}          18' (canopy~
                                                                                                                                                                       ------- ----- ----- ------- ----- -: Neta~ "jiUi1~~tij-s1gnagac.:an ~a-no hfiJhtiit~a_n'f,U1fditi!J ~~(bYC~di-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSULTANTS
                                                                                                                                             _Set_backs.                                                                F_~t~ard                  S!de'l_'.~rd           Si_<!eY~rd            Re~rYa~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HslfDayRI.                (residential)        (non+resl'.lenUal)      {1esi:lanttal/

                                                                                                                                                                s-u1idinQSe1fuiCk-REi(iUirec1:-- -                       렁-2s렁--                렁 10;렁                   o                    ::fo
                                                                                                                                                                               B1111din9 Setback    Pro~ded:               123.8'                    89.4'                  li0.4'                 20.t


                                                                                                              f-----                                            Ca~?PY}:1:%~~:~~~~~:~ro~~~(                         - ::1~:;~:렁                     -10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     }B.7~--렁
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          _!!:~4'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !!i.O'

                                                                                                              1    EXISTING
                                                                                                                   BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                !--~~~~~~~~a~~~~tei~~~~,~~ae~~                      - - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -l~~                         15.7'                  11.4'                 "K4'
                                                                                                                                                                s-1gl1-agEi-setbaC.k RiiCiUJred:                             s' -                      s                     S'                    S'                                    ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                    -   ~;gn~ge SetpBo~ P_row_~~:                       - 5'                       111'                   S'                   261'                                                            DATE
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                              '1



                                                                                                              L--~-~                         Park!ng            2.5 Spaces Required per 1,000 S.F.                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AOO<;YiE'llEV/           07-27-Q<lll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AOO<;Yll'/IEW            os-n-ro~
                                                                                                                                            _Requrrerne~ls       ---- --     --    -Quanl~yPro~de~:                          28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AOO<;YiflqEW             08-22-1012
                                                                                                                                                                stau size ReqUfrement:                      - 9' it fa                                                                                                                   CITY!l.llMITTAI.         10-29-10~
                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ra/IS{~e P~de~:: (23) 9'.x 1~'+ (2/!6'X~~,A~~-+ (4i11'x18~Va"ciuum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CITYSUJMITTAI.           ll--05-1012
                                                                                                                                             Landscaping                                                                                                                                                                                  CITYSUJMITTAI.           0\-10-1012
                                                                                                                                             Riiq~liotTie!'!tS- Ve~ICul~     use
                                                                                                                                                                             !'.\ma (VUJ\)                                                                   30.f16SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CITY!l.llMITTAI.         Ol-M-1012
                                                                                                                                                                Landscaping Required wlln VUA                                                                3.012.SF
                                                                                                                                                                ... - .. f~ilds.CiiPJri9 Wiil-vi{A- PWidt1eit:"                   .   10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1~~:--               -,i.BOiSF                                                                    CITY!l.llMITTAI.         02--08-:!)ij
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CITY!l.llM~TAI.          03--07-:!)ij
                                                                                                                                                                Landscaped Islands Required:                       2 = 1 per 10 spaces with no more than 10 s1>aces between islands
                                                                                                                                                                            La_~d8CiJP!Jd ls!andB_f'!o~i<!e~:_     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO. ITEM                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t-                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.~                              -
                                                                                                                                  VEHICLE TURNING AND STACKING EXHIBIT                                                                                                                                                            a~                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.~                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s.~                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.--                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.-                              -




                                          HALF DAY ROAD (IL RTE 22)
                                                                                         =-----"-=-====


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     [__
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET TITLE




                                                                 BARRIER MEDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <
                                                                                          N 0     R   T   H                                                                                                                                                                                                     t;

                                                                                         @               @                                                                                                                                                                                                     d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~                                                                 J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PM                           PM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 OF 1                                J
  EXHIBITC
Landscape Plan




      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AR( /llf',,r=~i,,,,.,~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8i.,t"     '\,J:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~.:--         .. l - ' \ .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1k..,1V'                 "tl

                                                                                                                                        =:>LANT LIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /          RESOURCES INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    렁/                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIZE/                                 --~-                            l
                                                                                                                                        ~       QLlAbl BOIANI-""' Al   NAME               roMMON NAME                            IXEE                                                               렁l렁렁
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i   5291 ZENITH PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                        DECIDUOJ5 SHADE TREES                                                                                                                          I   LOVES PARK, IL 61111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   VOICE: (615)484-4300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   FAX: (815) 484-4303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I          www.arcdesl\J1.com
                                                                                                                                        =cc       3     P~rus c. 'Chanticleer'            Chanticleer calorrsi Pear                 3'ElEl            As Shown

                                            ...
                                                                 j
                                                  ______________ _
                                                     EXISTING BUILDING                                                                  TCG
                                                                                                                                        UF
                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                        Tlllo c. 'Greenspire'
                                                                                                                                                        Ulmus x. 'Frontier'
                                                                                                                                                                                          Green 5plre Lfllleleaf L!nden
                                                                                                                                                                                          =rontler Elm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3'ElEl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3" ElEl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      As Shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      As Shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deslgn Frrm Lke111e No. 184-001334
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1

                                                                                                                                        G5        2     Gleditsia t. i. '5k~line'         51::.S'line 1-loneS' Locue.t              3" ElEl           A!!. Shown
                        -- HIST[N1n"REE-5EE-TREE
                            PRESERVATION PLAN FOR ...._....__
                            DETAILS (TYP.)
                                                                                      \                                                 AAEl
                                                                                                                                                        DFCIQUOJS ORNAMENTAi
                                                                                                                                                        Amelanchier g.'Aulumt'I
                                                                                                                                                                                        TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                          AuluMn Brllllance 5erv!ceberr~            6' ElEl           12'   o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER'S NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~




                                                                                                                                                          Brllllance'                                                                                                               BUCKY'S
                                                                                                                                        SR              5~rlnga reticulata                Japanese Tree Liiac (51.-;gle SlemJ 2' BB                   12' O.C.                      EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HIGHLAND PARK, IL
EXISTING BUILDING
                                                                                             '\\                                                        EVERGREEN TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HALF DAY ROAD (IL
                                                                                                                                        =p        3     Plcea p....1n9ens                 Colorado G .. een Spruce                  6'   ElEl         10'   o.c.                    RTE 22) o!c SKOKIE
                                                                                                                                        =pe:;     3     Ficea p. 'Glauca'                 Colorado E3 ue Spruce                     6'   ElEl         10'   o.c.                    HIGHWAY (U.S. -41)
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                            N     3     Flce.:i ab!es                     '\lorwasi Spruce                          6'   ElEl         10'   o.c.
                                                                                                                                        =s        3     Plnus. s.trobus                   Eastern Whfte Fine                        6'   ElEl         10'   o.c.
                                                                                                                                                      pECIQUOJS SHRUBS .t: Sl-lRUB ROSES                                                                                                  RICHARD MCMAHON
                                                                                                                                        AMM       28 Aronla m. 'Mor~on            frociuol& Beaut~ Chok.eberr~                    24'/5 Gal.           3'   o.c.                          5412 REGENTS PARK ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROCKFORD, IL 61107
                                                                                                                                        CAP       2? Cotoneaster acutrfolia      Peking Colon easter                             24'/5" Gal.          4' o.c.
                                                                                                   _       \x1STING TREE- SEE TREE                                                                                                                                                        PHONE (402) 718-6724
                                                                                                                                        ='AC      b   Euon1::1mus a. 'Co11patu&
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                  Dwarf Burning Bi..sh                           30'33                 4' o.c.
                                                                                                         -~ESERVAllOl\J PLAl'itFOR
                                                                                                                                        ~Ci:L    10 Rhu& a. 'Gro-Low'             Gro-Law Sumac                                   24'/5'     c:lal.    4' o.c.
                                                                                                               liETAILS (TYP.)
                                                                                                                                        SGM      23 6plraea b. 'Goldmound'        Goldmound Spirea                                24'/f,     Gal.      3' o.c.
                                                                                                       18.9'    i
                                                                                                                I                       SGF
                                                                                                                                        SElT
                                                                                                                                                 1'3
                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                      5p!r8ea b.'Gold Flame'
                                                                                                                                                      Spiraea b.'Tor'
                                                                                                                                                                                  Gold Flame Spirea
                                                                                                                                                                                  Birch\ea f S!=Jlrea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24'/f,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24'/5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3' o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3' o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r          CONSULTANTS


                                                                                                   I                                    VD&      26 Viburnum d. 'S~nneslvedt'     Chicago Lustre Viburnum                         24'/5      Gal.      4' o.c.
                                                                                                                                        -IP&     14   f-l~perlcum prollf'cum      Shrubbl::J 6t. John&wort                        24'/5"     Gal.      3' o.c.



                                                                                                                                        JCP       6     Junlperue c.'Ffllz. Comracta' C.amract Pfitzer Juniper                    24' ElEl             4'   o.c.
                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                        JKC      2':1   Juniperue. c. 'Kalla~ Compact' <alla~ Compact Juniper                     24' ElEl             4'   o.c.
                                                                                                                             BUILDING   TMD       21    Taxus m. 'Densiformfs'         Dense Yew                                  24' ElEl             4'   o.c.
                                                                                                                                                        PE RENt\ I Al 6 4 GRO\JNDcoy=5<&                                                                                                   JSSUEO FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE

                                                                                                                                        -H-IR    '3     !-le:rnerocallle. 'l-lapp~ Returns' ~appi::J Returns Da~!il~                I Gal.            18'   o.c.                           Allm:Y lf'llW               07-27-20U
                                                                                                                                        -!PM     ~      l-lsmerocallis 'Ros~ Returns' Ros~ Returns Da~lil~                          I Gal.            16'   o.c.                           Amr lfVEW                   08톃-10U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AGENCY~VlW                  08-2l-20U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTYSLBMITTAL                IJ-2MOU
                                                                                                                                        MATERIAL 'LA130R LIST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CITYSLBMITTIJ.              ll-05-2012
                                                                                                                                                                                          QEBCRlpJIQM                                                                                      CITYSLBMITTIJ.              OH'l-20~
                                                                                                                9- JKC                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH62012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CITYSLBMITTll.
                                                                                                                                        TElD 5Y         5od                               <ent....1ck~ Bluegrass Blend (minera. base)                                                      CITYSLBMITTIJ.              --ion
                                                                                                                                        TBD CY          Mulch                             51--redded 1-lardwood Bark                                                                       OJYSLBMITTIJ.               03--072'JU
                                                                                                                                        TBD CY          Mulch                             Compost <Yard Waste or Mushraom)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISIONS
                                                                                                           OPAQUE FENCE (RE: ARCH.)                                                                                                                                                  NO. ITEM                          DATE

                                                                                                                                        NOTES:                                                                                                                                        1~                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.~                              -
                                                                                                                    7-JKC
                                                                                                                                        l.) For details pertaining to Utilities,                4.) Contractor shall make a site visit prior to                                       3.~                              -
                                                                                                                                        Easements, Grading, Retaining Walls,                    bidding to dete1mine the current condition of                                         4.   f--                         -
                                                                YARD HYDRANT (TYP.)                                                     Layout, Geometry, Wetland/Flood Plain                   the site.                                                                            H-                                -
                                                                                                                                        Delineations, Etc., see plans prepared by                                                                                                     6.~                              -
                                                                                                                    8- CAP                                                                      5.) Contractor is responsible for supplying
                                                                                                                                        Arc Design, Inc.                                        the appropriate amount of topsoil to bring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.~                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                site conditions to a plantable & sodable
                                                                                                                                        2.) Plantings may need to be adjusted in the            condition.
                                                                                                                                        field to accommodate utilities, easements,
                                                                                                                                        drainage ways, downspouts, etc.; However,
                                                                                                                                        quantities and sizes shall remain consistant
                                                                                                                                        withthese plans.                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I              SHEET TITLE
                                                                                          5- SBT                                        3.) Exiating tree preservation is dependent
                                                                                                                                        upon grading, drainage and utility planning.
                    \
                    \
                                                    HALF DAY ROAD (IL RTE 22)                                                                                                                                                                                                              LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pt.I                            PM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /                   PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N        0       R      T          H                       SHEET NUMBER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   @                              12013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L1
     EXHIBITD
Tree Preservation Plan




         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARC I'[''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l   I                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r" '" ! .-, ii' I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L쥸즀D                         EXISTING TR＃ INFORMATION                                                               ,)t:,),;r,=_,,~\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /         r~ESOURCl:S IMC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -~--"'/                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                \                                                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING                                            DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RATING                                                             !..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY             TAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NUMBER             SPECIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IN INCHES 1 (DEJ\D) TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (DBM)   5 (EXCELLENT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANTICIPATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : 5291 ZENITH PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED CONCRETE                                                                                                                    I LOVES PARK, IL 61111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                      I VOICE: (815)484-4300


                                                                                                                                                                                    \                                                                         -X-X-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   329
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   330
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   332
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           linden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : FAX: (815) 484-4303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I www.gri:de~J9'1.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         011,lgnflrm Lken,sNc>. 184-0013:'1.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   333     swamp White Oak        12                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DECIDUOUS TREE (TAG      334     Swamp White Oak       15                     REMOVE                                   PROJECT NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REFERENCE) TO BE         335     Swamp White Oak      13.75                            PROTECT                         OWNER'S NAME
                                                                                                                                                                                 Trees close to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRESERVED                336     Honey locust          14                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                 curb, one was
                                                                                            R-6 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL                                                       marked for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DECIDUOUS TREE (TAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   337
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   338
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Linden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Linden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUCKY'S
                                                                                                                                                                                 remaval ... suggest
                                                                                                                                                                                 removing both and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REFERENCE) TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   339     linden                9.5                    REMOVE                                 EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                 planting new per                                                                                                  340     Ash                   7/6                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HIGHU.ND PARK, IL
                                                                                                                                                                                 Landscape Plan                                                                                                    341     swamp White Oak      15.25                   REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONIFEROUS TREE TO       342     Swamp White Oak       17                     REMOVE                                 HALF DAY ROAD (IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BE REMOVED               343     Swamp White Oak       12.S                   REMOVE                                 RTE 22) A: SKOKIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   344     Swatnp White Oak      lS.5                   REMOVE                                 HIGHWAY (U.S. 41)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   345     Shagbark Hickory      12                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   346     Ash                    8                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   347     swamp White Oak      15.75                   REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   348     Swamp White Oak      13/12                   REMOVE                                  RICHARD MCMAHON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !1119   Bur Oak              12.25                   REMOVE                                  5412 REGENTS PARK ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   350     Swamp Whrte Oak      15.75                   REMOVE                                  ROCKFORD, IL 61107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   351     Swamp White Oak                              REMOVE                            \.    PMONE ( 402) 718-6724
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   352     Swamp White Oak      16.S                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   353     swomp White Oak       19                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   354     Swamp White Oak      11.S                    REMOVE                                   CONSULTANTS

                                                                                                                                            ~1t~~          ?j{Li1~l~~                                                                                                                              355
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   356
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RedOak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                      I                                                             BUCKY'S EXPRESS                                                                                                                                                357     Ash                    10                             PROTECT
                                                                 11.7''                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROTECT
                                                                                                                                        4,706 S.F.                               SAND/Oil                                                                                                          358     Ash                  11/9.5
                                                                                                                                                                               SEPARATORS                                                                                                          359     Ash                  6/9.5                   REMOVE
                                                                                                                                      F.F.E.  646.5                           AND WATER                                                                                                           360     Swamp White Oak       18                     REMOVE
                                                             I                                                                                                                RECLAMATION                                                                                                          361     Ash                  7/5,5                   REMOVE


                                                         ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                    SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   362     A5h                   7/6                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   363     American Elm         13.5                    REMOVE


    \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   364     A5h                  8.75                             PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                         b~"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   365     Rt:!dOak              13                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   366     RedOak               13.5                    REMOVE
                                                         ?  "'
                                                         gl~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P!E-APfllCATklN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   367     Swamp White Oak       14                     REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AGENCY l즊EW                  06-ll-20U
                                                         8"'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   369
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           American Elm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE                                   AGENCYtEVEW                   OHJB-20E
                                                         z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         370     RedOak               18.5                    REMOVE                                                                 OB-l>-20U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   371     Ash                    8                              PROTECT
                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3n      Swamp White Oak       2l.                    REMOVE
                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     373     Ash                  6/5.5                   REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   374     Ash                   7/6                    REMOVE
                                                                          128.4'           25'                                   25'                 25'                25'              25'           25'                                                                                         375     Ash                                          REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   376     Swamp White Oak       19                     REMOVE
                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        377     swamp White Oak       13                              PROTECT
                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        378     Swamp White Oak      12.25                   REMOVE
                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   379     Swamp White Oak      9.25                    REMOVE                                 NO. ITEM                        DATE
                                                                          I

                             \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   380     Ash                                          REMOVE                                 l-
                                                                          I
                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        381     Ash                                          REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.-
                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        382     Ash                  10.25                   REMOVE
                                  I                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                        383     swamp White Oak       11                              PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   384                                                                                         4.-
                                                                          :~'                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Swamp White Oak                                       PROTECT

                                 :{~;o-~                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             렁---~~--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Trees close to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   curb, one was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   marked for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   385
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   386
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   387
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak      25.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECT                       s.~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.>-

                                      \~                                                                                                                                                                                                           removal .. suggest                             388     Ash                   8.5                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   removing both and                               389     Ash                  5.75                    REMOVE




                                      ~~:~~~~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   planting new per                                390     /\sh                 11.75                   REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Landscape Plan                                  391     Ash                   11.S                           PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   392     lost Tag            LostTaB     l.ostTaB        LOST TAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .....,.                                                                   393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   394
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4         REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   395     Swamp White Oak        14                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   396     Swamp White Oak        18                    REMOVE                        r          SHEET TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   397     swamp White Oak        14                    REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   398
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   399
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Swamp White Oak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TREE
                                                                                                                            HALF DAY ROAD (IL RTE 22)                                                                                                                                              400     Swamp White Oak      14.75                   REMOVE                            PRESERVATION
                                                                                                                                                    BARRIER MEDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                71 TREES WERE INVENTORIED (CONIFEROUS TREES AND BUSHES WERE EXCLUDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 TAG WAS LOST OR UNIDENTlFI ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N     0   R   T   H                                                13 INVENTORIED TREES ARE SLATED TO BE PROTECTED DURING CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                58 INVENTORIED TREES ARE TO BE REMOVED DURING CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PM                              PM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r                    PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NUMBER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           \..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 OF 1                                ~
g:\projeds\12013 bucky's ~lghkmd pork, 11\dwg\englneering plons\tree preservation plan.dwg plotted by BUI Clasen on 118/2013 3:21 PM. Plot scale == 1:1.
 EXHIBITE
Aerial Exhibit




     12
                  I
                  I
................. {....................... .
                  l
                  I
                      5291 ZENITH PARKWAY
                      LOVES PARK, IL 61111
                  I   VOICE: (815) 484 - 4300
                  I   FAX: (815) 484 -4303
                  !  www.arcdeslgn.com
             Design Firm License No. 184-001334
                  I
                  I




       THIS LAYOUT IS FOR DIAGRAMMATIC
        PURPOSES ONLY AND IS NOT FOR
          CONSTRUCTION LOCAL CODES
        WERE NOT KNOWN OR PROVIDED
               FOR THIS LAYOUT.




      BUCKY'S EXPRESS
         STORE 430

         APRIL 27, 2012

       HALF DAY ROAD
        AND SKOKIE
         HIGHWAY
     HIGHLAND PARK, IL




        AERIAL EXHIBIT




       N     0         R      T       H
       ~--
     EXHIBITF
South Canopy Elevation




         13
                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --
                                                                                                                           .......                                      _._...
                                                                                                                                                                                                          /

        I                       .....                                   렁-                  --                                                     -.                                      ----r-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~~
                                                                                                                                                                    l            I   I   I          I
    i   I[!1]@10a~   1                                                                                                                                                                  I         I




                                                                                                                                         I
   I
   'I
    '
                          I
                          .!1
                                                       I                             i             I                                     I                          I            I   I                            KURTZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASSOCIATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  701 Lee Streel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suite 900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Des Plaines, Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60016-4551

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v 847 824 0132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F 847 824 7906
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  www.kmlzarch.com
SOUTH CANOPY ELEVATION                                                                                                                       1/16"   =     1 '-0"                                                 l'ROl'tlSSIONAl..DESfGHFIRAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,......,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHl1EC1URALCCRPMA710H




                                                                    ,

                                                                                                                      1,


                                        ~
                                                 r--
                                                                                                                     'I
                                                              '
                                                       ~
                                                         I
                                                       fi"\                    [Mjl@[Q)~~           I
                                                              I'                                                 I         I

                                                                   ILLUMINATED BLUE LENS
                                                                   ILLUMINATED WHITE LENS
                                                                                                   I/            I
                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                   STEEL COLUMN                  I         I
                                        ~                                       CLAD W/ MASONRY
                                         I
                                                                               TO MATCH BUILDING                 I         I
                                        (fl
                                                                                                   ~             I         I
                                                       ~                                                        ~


                                                         I
                                                       -                                                         I         I
                                                       ~
                                                                                                                 I         I

                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                                                 I         I                                                                 NO.        DAT      ISSIJE / REll/S/ON 0즅CRIP7/0N INl
                                                                                                                                                                                             1!li!J/ELJJJ1e
                                                                                                                 I         I

                                                                                                                 I         I                                                                              BUCKY'S EXPRESS
                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          HIGHLAND PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                        HAU PAY ROAP & !KO~E HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                              HIGHIAHD PAR~ IL
                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                                                 I         I                                                                 J;JffilJJ[J.fj



                                             '                                                          I                            I
                                                 "                                                              ,.2'-0"                                                                                 CANOPY ELEVATION
                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                             m!MIBY:

CANOPY ELEVATION DETAIL                                                                                                                       1/4"   =     1 '-0"                            CHfCK쥵 BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KM IPliO.쥳rM>.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KM llll1lOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 llOOJ

                                                                                                                                                                                             Affl<JIW!m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KM      I   AIOl_ll010-C.dwg
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sll[[TNO:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                       @fXP1Rl(;/ff 2012 KIJHTl MSCCJA!ES ARCJH!fClS
        EXHIBITG
Exterior Building Elevations




            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PREFIHISl-IED METAL ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCREEN PANELS, SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETAIL ~IAS.2. (COLOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATCf-l BLOCK "GINGER"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COLOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                    8" NOM. GROUND-FACE
                                                                                                                                                                                    CoNCRETE MASONRY UNIT&
                                                                                                                                                                                    (COLORED 13-l>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FREFINl5f-lED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCUPPER,          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRIM  ETALf\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                                4" x 16" OVERFLOUJ OPENING                                                                    ACCESSORIES (COLOR
                                                                                                                                Will-I METAL FLA51-llNG A5         DECORATIVE LIGl-IT -                                       TO MATCl-I ANODIZED
                                         FREFINl51-lED
                                         TRIM, MODEL: METAL  COPING'\
                                                       PAC- rm:;                                                                                                   FIXTURE (TYPJ
                                                                                                                                REQUIRED (TYP. AT EACl-l                                                                      ALUM.> REFER TO 5MACNA                                                              f='IBER CEMENT PANELS
                                         A& MANUFACTURED Bl                                                                     6CUPFEFV BOTTOM OF                                                                            f='IC:.URE l.21A                                                                    (18"x.12") BY NICl-111-lA. USE
                                         FSTER5EN ALUMINUM (COLOR                                                               OPENING TO 13E I'' ABOVE                                                                                                                                                          MAIN FIELD (f='C-V
                                         TO MATCH CLEAR ANODIZED


                                                                                                                                                                                        l l Tl                          lI
                                                                                                                                ROOF LINE, 5EE 5MACNA                                                                                                                                                             TYPICAL
                                         ALUMINUM>
                                       $                                                                                                                                                                                              II
                                                                                                                                FIGURE l.3ie>A
                                         ~~p ~~~i.~ONRY                            ;;:;;;=r=                         /                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FISER CEMENT CORNER TRIM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY NICHlf-lA. COLOR TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADJACENT SIDE, TYPICAL
                                       ~ TOP   OF MASONRY /
                                         EL.= 116'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8 11 NoM.sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE MASONRY ACCENT
                                         8 11 NOM. GROUND-FACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNITS (COLORED B-2)
                                         CoNCRl:!lE MASONRY UNIT5

                                         ~:~~~~~~~-FACE                 /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PREFINISf-lED METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DOWNSPOUT, TRIM AND
                                         CONCRETE MASoNR:l UNITS
                                         (COLORED 6-D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACCESSORIES (COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO MATCl-1 ANODIZED ALUM.>


      ..r.FINl&l-l FLOOR AT ENTR.
      '-"EL.   <:)9'-~"                 i-----------------~~--~
                                                              ~ ----                      -tr'---------------------- --------------------- ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------',----------',
                                         I                         \
                                         L ____________________ ...J
                                                                             I             :::
                                                                             L ______ jj_ ____________________            ------------------------ ---------------------------- -----------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --------------------------...J. _________ J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                         CONCRETE SIDWEALK                                       CONCRETE MA50NRY                                        8" NOH. STANDARD                         4" NOH. ARCl-llTECTURAL                                 8"x8"x4" MASONRY 6LA55              ~------------------------------------------~
                                         ~~~.~VIL   FOR ADDITIONAL                               CONTROL JOINT (C~)                                      ~~~i~1~:~g~~bRED              6-1!       ~~~~~~A~,\-'.-,,'~66;/T                                 ~~~ '.f,,";;'i(~g~;,"'   MIN         EXTERIOR MA TERI AL co LOR LE G:E ND
                                         6" DIA. CONCRETE                                                                                                                                         OPENING)                                                                                    MARK MATERIAL   ~M-AN_U_F-AC-T-URE-R------,,-M,-OD-EL-----,--CO-,L-0:-R----------J
                                         FILLED &TEEL PIPE
                                         BOLLARD. (PROVIDE BOLLARD                                                                                    NORT~                 6UI LD ING ELEVATION                                                                                              6-1    MAIN FIELD CONCRETE 6LOCKUNITS                CONCRETEMATERIAL&COMPAN'T'     GROUND-FACE                 COLORTOMATCl-lARRISCRAFT ''C:llNGER"
                                         PROTECTION SLEEVE A& SUPPLIED                                                                                &GAU:: 118" = l'-0"                                                                                                                     6-2    ACCENT CONCRETE BLOCK UNITS                   WATKIN& COMPANY                STANDARD                    "Wl-IEAT"
                                         BY INNOPLA&T. (COLOR TO eE                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FC텶   MAIN l=IELD F!Ell::R CEMENT PANEL&            NICI-Ill-IA, USA               ILLUMINATION Sl::RIE5       Sl-lERIJJIN i.U1LLIAM5 "MANUAL Wl-IEAT PENNI"
                                         SELECTED Bl OWNER)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FC-2   ACCENT FIEIER CEMENT P.ANELE>                 NICI-Ill-IA. U&A               ILLUMINATION 5ERIE5         51-lERWIN W!LLIAM& &\IJJ102 "5PICED CIDER'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FC-3   ACCENT Fl6ER CEMENT P.ANEL&                   NICI-Ill-IA U&A                ILLUMINATION SERIE&         Sl-lERWIN WILLIAM& "LIC::.1-lT MIX"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREFIN15HED METAL COPING TRIM                 FETER5EN ALUMINUM CPAC-CLADJ   PAC-TITE                    CLEAR P.l'IODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREFIN15HED METAL FLA&l-llNG                  PETERSEN ALUMINUM (PAC텰LADJ                               CLEAR P.l'IODIZl::D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREFINl5HED METAL &CLIPPER                                                                               CLEAR !>.NODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FREFINl5f-ll:D METAL DOJ.N&POUTa                                                                         CLEAR ANODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALUMINUM CANOPY                                                                                          CLEAR P.l'IODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALUMINUM FLAT STOCK                           PETERSEN ALUMINUM (PAC-CLADJ                               CLEAR .ANODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREFINl51-lED METAL COLUMN COVER5             PETER5EN ALUMINtN (PAC-CLADJ   PAC-21D0tZF                 CLEAR ANODIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STOREFRONT ALUMINUM                           KAlLNEER                       TRIFAEI VG 4!W4!;1T <SSC:.) CLEAR P.l'IODIZl::D
                           FREFINISl-ll:D MET AL COFINU                                                                                                                          FREFIN151-lED MET AL ROOF                                                                                           CARIJJA51-l ALUMINUM ENTRY DOOR               5F'EC-LITE                     ALUMINUM FLU51-l            LIGl-IT Gr~lff <KA3C31221>
                           TRIM, MODEL: FAC-TITE                                                                                                                                 &CREEN PANELS, SEE                                                                                                  CARLUA&H ALUMINUM l::NTRY FRAME               &Fl::C-LITE                    ALUMINUM                    CLEAR ANODIZED
                           AS MANUPACTURED 13Y                                                                                                                                   DETAIL 9/AE>.2. (COLOR TO
                           FETER6EN ALUMINUM (COLOR                                                                                                                              MATCl-l 13LOCK "UINCiER"
                           TO HATCl-1 CLEAR ANODIZED                                                                                                                             COLOR>                                                                                                       "NOTE: MASONRY SUPPLIER TO FURINSH MORTAR THAT MATCHES CoNCRt:::TE BLOCK COLOR.
                           ALUMINUM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FIBER CEMENT PANEL&
   $ ~~:.. ~4~~~0NRY                                                                                                                                                                                                              (18"x.12") BY NICI-Ill-IA, USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACCENT FIELD ffC-2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYPICAL




   $ FINl51-l
            FLOOR
     EL.= llZlJZJ'-IZl"



                                                                                                                                                                            PREFINIBHED ALUMINUM                                                                                                     Fl13ER CEMENT CORNER TRIM
                                                                                 I" Tl-llCK CLEAR IN5ULATED                                                                 COLUMN COVER TO                                       I" Tl-HCK CLEAR INSULATED                                          BY NICl-llf-lA, COLOR TO HATCl-1
                                                                                 TEMPERED GLASS CPFG                                                                        UNDER51DE OF CANOPY                                   TEMPERED GLA!!>S CPFG                                              ADJACENT SIDE, TYPICAL
                                                                                 INDUSTRIES, MODEL &OLARBAN                                                                 (PETER&EN ALUMINUM                                    INDU5TR1E5, MODEL SOLARSAN
                                                                                 1JZJXU                                                                                                                                           1JZJXU                                                             8" NOH. GROUND-FACE
                                                                                                                                                                            FAC21ZllZllZ>FJ TYF. OF 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE MA50NRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (COLORED B-1)
                                                                                 ALUMINUM STOREFRONT UJINDOW                                                                ALUMINUM STOREFRONT l::NTRY                           ALUMINUM &TOREFRONT WINDOW
                                                                                 5Y5TEM UJITH CLEAR ANODIZED                                                                6YSTEM llJITl-I CLEAR ANODIZED                        5Y5TEM WITl-l CLEAR ANODIZED                                       FREFINISl-lED ALUM. TRIM FLASHING
                                                                                 i=INlSH (K.A\.lNEER MODEL                                                                  FINl61-l CKAl.l.NEER MODEL                            t=:INl5l-I (KAUJNEER MODEL                                         (COLOR TO MATCl-l CLEAR ANODIZED
                                                                                 45-1/45-IT S&::::i;                                                                        45-1/45-Jr &SG AND 1" INSULATED                       451!4SIT 556)                                                      ALUMINUM
                                                                                                                                                                            GLASS SlDl:':LITES


                                                                                                                              SOUTl-I BUILDING ELEVATION                                                                         FREFINl51-1ED METAL COPING
                                                                                                                              SCALE: l/8" " l'-IZl"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRIM, MODEL1 PAC-TITE
                                                                                                                                                             FREFINISl-IED MET AL COPING                                         A& MANUFACTURED BY
                                                                                                                                                             TRIM, MODEL: FAC-TITE                                               PETERSEN ALUMINUM (COLOR
                                                                                                                                                             AS MANUFACTURED BY                                                  TO MATCH CLEAR ANODIZED
                                                                                                      8" NOM. STANDARD                                       PETERSEN ALUMINUM( COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALUMINUM)                                                                                                         FREFINl61-lED METAL ROOF            FIBER CEMENT PANEL&
                                                                                                      CONCRETE MASONRY ACCENT                                TO MATCH CLEAR ANODIZED
                                                                                                                                                             ALUMINUM)                                                           OUiNER SUPPLIED-----                                                                                              SCREEN PANEL&, SEE                  (lB"x.12") BY NICH!HA, USE
                                                                                                      UNIT (COLORED B2)
PREFINl5l-IED MET AL COPING                             FREFINl&l-lED MET AL ROOF                                                                                                                                                516NA6E                                            FIBER CEMENT PANELS                                            DETAIL ~/A5.2. (COLOR TO            ACCENT FIELD (FC-3)
TRIM, MODEL: PAC-TITE                                   SCREEN PANEL&, SEE                            CONCRETE MA&ONRY                                                                                                           FREFINISl-lED MET AL                               (IB"x12") BY NICl-llHA, USE                                    MATCl-l 6LOCK ''GINGER"             TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                             PREFIN151-lED MET AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~~~:~~r:i~r(~EoR                                   .,::~l~~TLFIELD (FC-2)                                                                            ~~~: ~4~~~NRY$
AS MANUFACTURED 13Y                                     D!:::TAIL S/A;,.2. (COLOR TO                  CONTROL JOINT (C.J.)                                   SCUPPER. TRIM AND
PETERSEN ALUMINUM (COLOR                                MATCl-l BLocK "UINGER"                                                                               ACCES50RlE& (COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COLOR)                                                                                                               '[
                                                        COLOR)
TO MATCl-l CLEAR ANODIZED
ALUMINUM)
                                                                                                                                                             TO HATCH ANODIZED ALUM.>
                                                                                                                                                             REFER TO 5MACNA FIGURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO MATCH ANODIZED ALUMJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFER TO eMACNA !='16\URE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIBER CEMENT PANELS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (18"x12") BY NICi-111-lA. ue.E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                             1.21A
                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP OF MA50NRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l.21A                                                                                                                                                 MAIN FIELD (l=C- lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .Q


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                  EL. 118'-IZl"                                 TO OF MASONRY                                                                                                                                         TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :i~lfi~ io : ~i,?i~ "~iE iEiAiR!INiG~~~llllllllllllll!lillll!lilllill[;~!~!~~!T!l~!~!':!..'!NG~$
                                                                                                                                                                                        JOl&T BEARINU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                        EL.= 115'-4"                             CONCRETE MASONRY                                                                                                                                      B" NOM. GROUND-FACE                                                              ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTROL JOINT (C.J)                                                                                                                                   Ti~c~~~~ ~~~ONRY          UNITS                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PREFINISl-lED MET AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOlLNSFOUT, TRIM AND                                                                                                                                  PREFINl&l-IED ALUM. TRIM FLAS\.JING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ACCE&SORIE& (COLOR                                                                                                                                    (COLOR TO MATCl-l CLEAR ANODIZE[                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO MATCl-l ANODIZED ALUMJ                                                                                                                             ALUMINUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8" NOH. SMOOTl-l-FACE ----ifIT'Tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONcRETE MASONRY UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              " "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~ CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNIT (COLORED B-IJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                              FINISl-l FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                              EL.= llZllZl'-0"               $~~1:",';,';~?RIAT       ENTRANCE -~,_,..__                                                        -------------------------------------e---~ ~~ :"1~':'_';.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~              ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o:o
                                                                                                                                                             8" NOM. ST AND ARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2         i    Qi=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE MA50NRY ACCENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B" NOH. STANDARD                      l __________________________ l _________________________________________________L___ J                                                                                                           'O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ffi~
                                                                                                                                                             UNIT (COLORED 6-2)

                                                                                                                                                             6" DIA. CONCRETE FILLED
                                                                                                                                                             &TEEL PIPE BOLLARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE MASONRY ACCENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNIT (COLORED B-2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          쯇OPYRIGHT 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THIS DRAWING AND ITS DESIGN ARE THE PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "f ~ 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~uj
                                                                                                                                                             CPROVIDE BOLLARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF ROBERTW. ENGEL AND ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A2 .1
                                                                                                                                                             PROTECTION &LEE VE A& &UPPL IED
                                                         EAST BUILDING ELEVATION                                                                             61 INNOPLA&T. (COLOR TO BE
                                                                                                                                                             &ELECTED BY OWNER)                                                                                                      WEST BUILDING ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND IS NOT TO BE USED OR REPRODUCED WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE PERMISSION OF ROBERTW. ENGELANO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-IZl"
  EXHIBITH
Front Elevation




      15
BUCKY'S
Highland Park - Revised
FRONT ELEVATION
-" =1'-0"   02.07.2013
0      4          16

FEET
  EXHIBIT I
Side Elevations




      16
BUCKY'S
Highland Park - Revised
SIDE ELEVATIONS
f:z" = 1'0" 02.07.2013
0      4         16

FEET
 EXHIBITJ
Back Elevation




      17
BUCKY'S
Highland Park - Revised
BACK ELEVATION
:f2"   =1'-0"       02.07.2013
0        4      8        16

FEET
     EXHIBITK
Floor Plans and Notes




         18
                                                                                                                    12&'-6W


                                      6 1-1


                                                                          1&'-tD'

                                               2 -e
                                                1



                l'.                                                                                                                                                                   l'.
                                                                                                                                                                   l1 11 CMU
    "''C
                ~                                                                                                                                                               ~
    B''CMU                                                                                                                                                         &'CMU
                      ~
                "' "'      ,---
                           I
                                                    _;;>,_ ____ :;,
                                                    ',                         // I
                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                           I      II                     '            /
                                                                           /      I
                      ~                                      ''
                                                                                                                                                                                '
                           I      I      I                        /               I


~
                           I      I      I
                          I                                      ''                                                                                                            ll
                                  L_j
                ~          I
                           I
                           L __       ~                           ___'.:J
                :t

                                                                                                                                                                                ii
                      ..
    12"
    .9 11 CMU         '                                                                                                                                                         ..
                                                                                                                                                                                _,




                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~

                                                                                                                                                                                !I
                                                                                                                                                                                ~           :r
                                                                                                                                                                                            :;;


                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                     I          ~
                                                                                L--------------------                                   ------------------------    ~




                                                                                      41'-2 11



                                                                                                 24'-2"
                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                            -iZI

                                                                                                                                                  :21 1-8 11                         l!o'-411




                                                                                                      FLOOR FLAN
                                                                                                                              Not'<TH                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "' :i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I     II'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l           ,ji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~     a: ~ .,     Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "    z

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~ ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "'"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       01!!
                                                                                                                                                                                                      쯇OPYR1GHT2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIS DRAWING AND ITS DESIGN ARE THE PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF ROBERTW. ENGEL AND ASSOCIATES,ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J! !              go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U-Z



                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND IS NOT TO BE USED OR REPRODUCED WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      THE PERMISSION OF ROBERT W. ENGEL AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS                                   A1 1
EXHIBITL
Sign Plan




   19
'""x-'-----'D   __E--s""'1G""N.;;...T.;_Y'"'"P""'E_ _ _- 1    SCALE: 1;4"   = 1 ,_0 ,,                                                                                                       Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
 OiNTERIOR                   0 EXTERIOR
 0 NEON DISPLAYS             0 CHANNEL LETTERS                                                       14'-11 Yz"
 0 NON-ILLUM SIGNAGE 0 REV. CHANNEL LETTERS
 0 DUEL POLE SIGN            0 SINGLE POLE SIGN                                                      13'-0"
 0MONUMENT SIGN              0 DIRECTIONAL
 0CHANGEABLE READER BOARD/ ELE. DISPLAYS
               PROJECT TYPE




 ~
         NEW CONSTRUCTION
         REMODELING
         TENANT CHANGES                                                                                           FLUSH MOUNTED CHANNEL LETTERS:
         LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS
         CORPORATE CHANGES                                                                                        FABRICATED FROM .050 BLK PRE-FINISHED ALUMINUM RETURNS
         AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE                               c.o                                         ATTACHED TO .063 ALUMINUM BACKS. FACES ARE TO BE .1875 WHITE   W' ALL-THREAD.
                                                                        I
                                                                      (o                                          ACRYLIC WITH 3M VINYL GRAPHICS APPLIED TO THE FIRST SURFACE
      This sign is intended to be                                                                                 (AS NOTED). FACES ARE TO HAVE 1" BLACK TRIM-CAP ADHERED TO      ACRYLIC FACE
   installed in accordance with the                                                                               PERIMETER OF LETTERS/SWOOSH). INTERNAL ILLUMINATION WITH
  requirements of Article 600 of the                                                                              WHITE LED's.                                                    L.E.D. LIGHTING
     National Electric Code and/or
                                                                                                                  LETTERS ARE TO BE MOUNTED TO FASCIA IN CUSTOMER SPECIFIED
  other applicable local codes. This                                                                                                                                                 1" ACRYLIC
                                                                                                                  LOCATION USING PROPER HARDWARE AND FASTENERS NON-CORROSIVE).       TRIMCAP
    includes proper grounding and
          bonding of the sign.                                                                                                                                                   PRE-FNISHED
                                                                                                                                                                                 ALUMINUM RETURNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      lit" WEEP HOLES
                                                                                                                                                                                                      @ BOTTOM OF LETTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASSEMBLIES (MIN 2).




  NOTICE:
  ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
  BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENT. AS OF
  APPROVAL BY THE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED
  PRIOR TO ANY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
  OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL
  AGREEMENTS FINAL AND TO CLIENT APPROVAL.

  Signed                                   Date

  Sales Rep.                               Date



               ><                                                                  FRONT ELEVATION
      u ...            "'"
               <'!                                   _J
                       ~"'
                       ~8
     -
     c:
      . ...~
               "'
               "'
               ...., ~ ffi
               :;;: ~j
               "'
               o.i Jg '5
               0     .a
                                                     .::L
                                                      '-
                                                      ro
                                                     (l_
                                                     -0
      0                '""
                            0
                                                      c
     u         .:
               .....
               0
                       g-~
                       ""
                       iija>
                                                     1!:!
                                                     _c
      c:       ~
                       c"'
                       :~~                           I
                                                         0)

     'Ol:J ~           "'O
     -
     V)    ~
           N
                . ~i   ii 5
                                                         >.
                                                         ro
      c:       N

               co "'
               0
                  82
                     -
                       !;::;::J

                       C'O
                                                     _c
                                                         3:
      0 "'
         ro
                  c 1l a::;                          .~
      Q).c             ~ -                          I
     z         ro
               E
               0
                       "'O
                       .c"
                       .~                           :52
                                                         Q)


      C'V      Q)      mg                                0
     ..c:      ,fg
               UJ
                       a_
                       o_<ll
                        "'E
                                                     ~
                                                     Cf)
       C'V             iii 'O                        o6
               &:;
       E       z       ~~
                       EE
                                                     -0
                                                         ro
     0         0
               ~       ~ c:f
                       '00                           a::
                                                         0

                        ~.~
                       .9(/)
                                                         >.
                                                         ro
                       "'c                           0
                       "0
                       'O"
                       <nZ
                                                     .,__
                       ~~                            "iii
                           "'
                           E
                                                     I
                           0

  DRAWING #:                      75443
  PROJECT l.D.:

   SALES DEPT:                    Troy Panagiotis


   DRAWN BY:                    Seatt &vi.nett
                                          INSPECTED BY:
   Date: 08.31.12


   Revised:
1-'X__,__ ____;D;;...;E;;..oS;.;.;IG:;;;.N"'-TY'-'-'-P-"'E_ _ _- - - l SCALE:
 OINTERIOR                       0 EXTERIOR
                                                                                %"   =1'-0"                                                                   Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
 0NEON DISPLAYS      0 CHANNEL LETTERS
 0 NON-ILLUM SIGNAGE 0 REV. CHANNEL LETTERS
 0 DUEL POLE SIGN    0 SINGLE POLE SIGN
 0 MONUMENT SIGN     0 DIRECTIONAL                                                                                                         16'-2Yz"
 0CHANGEABLE READER BOARD/ ELE. DISPLAYS
               PROJECT TYPE                                                                                                  13'-6   Yz"              28"




 ~
         NEW CONSTRUCTION
         REMODELING
         TENANT CHANGES
         LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS
         CORPORATE CHANGES
         AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE                                                0
                                                                                       N

      This sign is intended to be
   installed in accordance with the
  requirements of Article 600 of the
     National Electric Code and/or
  other applicable local codes. This
    includes proper grounding and
          bonding of the sign.

                                                                 RACEWAY MOUNTED CHANNEL LETTERS:                                                           ACRYLIC FACE
                                                                                                                                                                                           "J"BOX

                                                                 FABRICATED FROM BLACK PRE-FINISHED ALUMINUM                                                L.E.D. LIGHTING

  NOTICE:                                                        RETURNS ATTACHED TO .063 ALUMINUM BACKS. FACES ARE
                                                                                                                                                                1" ACRYLIC
  ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
                                                                 TO BE 3/16" RED PLEXIGLAS #2793 WITH 1" BLACK TRIM-CAP                                         TRIM CAP
  BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENT. AS OF                        ADHERED TO PERIMETER OF FACES. INTERNAL ILLUMINATION
  APPROVAL BY THE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED                                                                                                                      ALUMINUM
  PRIOR TO ANY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
                                                                 WITH RED LED's. LETTERS ARE MOUNTED TO AN EXTRUDED                                          RETURNS
  OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL                        ALUMINUM RACEWAY (PAINTED TO MATCH FASCIA). SIGNAGE                                                          %"WEEP HOLES
  AGREEMENTS FINAL AND TO CLIENT APPROVAL.                                                                                                                                    @ BOTTOM OF LETTER
                                                                 IS TO BE MOUNTED TO FASCIA IN CUSTOMER SPECIFIED LOCATION                                                    ASSEMBLIES (MIN 2)
  Signed                                Date                     USING PROPER HARDWARE AND FASTENERS (NON-CORROSIVE).
  Sales Rep.                            Date



       .
       u "
               ><
               ~
                      -"'
                      oc""
                          -E
                                                    ::::!
                                                                                           FRONT ELEVATION


     -.c: "'
          ....,
          "'
           ~
               :0:
               <'?
               oJ
               0
                      ~8
                      Oc
                      i
                      .c"
                      ~:;
                                                    .::2
                                                     .....
                                                     C1l
                                                    0...
                                                    "O
     0         "
                      .0 0

                      g~                             c
     u         ..:
               ....
               0
                      .=-g
                      ~"'
                                                     C1l
                                                    :c
       c:   ~                                       .Q>
       'OlJ "(t,_ :~~                               I
                   """
                  :S (5
     Vi ~
     -        N
                      ~$                             >-
                                                     C1l
       c:      N
               0
                      ~::I

                      ~"a~                           :.;:
                                                    .c
       0 "' 82 00


       CJ "' 쬖i
                                                     0)

              g.                                    :C
     z                ~
               .<::
               "' .c,,
               E  """                                ())
               0
                      .~                           :52
       ~       OJ     "'c                            0
     ..c '"'   Q)

               Cf)
                      ~iU'
                      [ij-E
                                                    ~
                                                    (/)
      ~        .<::
                      ~~                            ~
       E       10
               z       """'
                      mo
                       E.S
                                                    "O
                                                     C1l
     0         0
               N      :ni cf
                      '<>()
                                                     0
                                                    a:

 @ iM                 ~g
                      ,,z
                      :C rn
                      f--.<:
                          "'
                          E
                                                    >.
                                                    C1l
                                                    0
                                                    ......
                                                    (i'j
                                                    I
                          0


  DRAWING #:                   75381
  PROJECT l.D.:

    SALES DEPT:                 Troy Panagiotis


    DRAWN BY:                Sean ~Jiett
                                       INSPECTED BY:
    Date: 08.30.12


    Revised:
i.:X...:...._ _ _,;;;,DE;;;;톁;;;;,IG,;;;,N;,;,.,;,T,;;.;YP;,,,;E;;....._ _ _-iSCALE:   1,4" ;::; 1 '~0"
 OINTERIOR                           0 EXTERIOR                                                            12'-2"                                                                  Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
 0NEON DISPLAYS                      0CHANNELLETTERS
 0NON텶LLUM $lGNAGE                  0   REV. CHANNEL LETTERS
 0DUEL POLE SIGN   0SINGLE POLE SIGN
 0MONUMENT SIGN    []DIRECTIONAL
 0CHANGEABLE READER BOARD! ELE. DISPLAYS                                                                            FLUSH MOUNTED CHANNEL LETTERS:
                       PROJECT TYPE
          NEW CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                    FABRICATED FROM .050 BLK PRE-FINISHED ALUMINUM RETURNS
                                                                                                                    ATTACHED TO .063 ALUMINUM BACKS. FACES ARE TO BE .1875 WHITE
          REMODEUNG
                                                                                                                    ACRYLIC WITH 3M VINYL GRAPHICS APPLIED TO THE FIRST SURFACE
          TENANT CHANGES                                                                                            (AS NOTED}. FACES ARE TO HAVE 1" BLACK TRIM-CAP ADHERED TO
          LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                     PERIMETER OF LETTERS/SWOOSH). INTERNAL ILLUMINATION WITH
          CORPORATE CHANGES                                                                                         WHITE LED's.
          AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                    LETTERS ARE TO BE MOUNTED TO FASCIA IN CUSTOMER SPECIFIED                             120. PRIMARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEAO
      This sign is intended to be                                                                                   LOCATION USING PROPER HARDWARE AND FASTENERS NON-CORROSIVE).
   installed ln accordance with the
  requirements of Article 600 of the                                                                                                                                                                 i; WEJ;f'_HOL!l__
                                                                                                                                                                                                     iW BOTIOM OF lETIER
     National Electric Code and/or                                                                                                                                                                   ASSEMBLIES (MIN 2).
  other applicable local codes. This
    includes proper grounding and
          bonding of the sign.




   ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
   BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENr. AS OF
   APPROVAL BYTHE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED
   PRIOR TO AMY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
   OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL
   AGREEMENTS FINALANO TO C~IENT APPROVAL

   Signed                                    Oaje

   Sales Rep.                                Date


                            ....
               ~        "
        u              <;;!                                 ='
                       fl
      - c::
            A

            
                ;jl;
                [!;
                ,...
                ~

                ~
                       "~
                       2!
                       g'!J
                       .0
                            ~


                            {l
                                                            -i
                                                             {O
                                                            0..
                                                            \j


      8
      c::
                  a:li
                ,_
                !:; ;-g
                ~
                       ""
                       .h
                                                             c
                                                             ro
                                                            .c
                                                             0)

        b.()~          톘
                       0                                   :c
                       "'"'
                       '5 Jj                                  I

      Vi! ..,,,
       -       N
                       !I]                                   >.
                                                             ro
         @! '
      c: (8  ""'
            .,                  '                            ~
            ""
            8.!                                             .c
       2         0)    gjt                                  ,2'
                                                            :c
       z "". "'"'
                0
                 ~
                       ~
                       .c ID
                             g.
                                                             (!)
                                                            :s::
       ro    '~ ii)
             .,_,,.,   ~e                                    0
      ..c:      ~
                (/)    !t~
                                                            ~
                                                            (fJ


        ~                                                   oes
                      :ii]
                ...
                '     ~~                                   'O
                z      E~                                    ro
       0        ~      ~ o'
                       1!0                                  fi
                       ~..                                  :>..
                       tn11.l                                (i)

                       '""
                       u
                       kl;;:
                                                            Cl
                                                            :!::
                                                             (0
                       ~.,
                            1li
                             E                              ::r:
                            0


   DRAWING #:                       75382
   PROJECT l.D.:

     SALES DEPT:                    Troy Panaglotis

     DRAWN BY:                  Sea.11. Ctml'tell
                                            INSPECTED BY:
     Da\e: 08.30.12

     Revised:
X                     DESIGN TYPE                            SCALE: 3/8"=1 '-0"
OINTERIOR                  0 EXTERIOR                                                                                                                                             Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
0NEON DISPLAYS      0CHANNEL LETTERS                                                                                                                                  5'-4   II




                                                                                           l
0 NON-ILLUM SIGNAGE 0 REV. CHANNEL LETTERS



                                                                              r
0 DUEL POLE SIGN    0 SINGLE POLE SIGN
0 MONUMENT SIGN     0 DIRECTIONAL
0 CHANGEABLE READER BOARD/ ELE. DISPLAYS                                          2'-5%"                                                                              5'-0   II

                                                                                                                                                        2"   I   I~
              PROJECT TYPE




~
        NEW CONSTRUCTION


                                                                      ~E              I
        REMODELING
        TENANT CHANGES
        LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS
        CORPORATE CHANGES
        AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE

    This sign is intended to be
 installed in accordance with the
requirements of Article 600 of the
   National Electric Code and/or                                                                                                                0
other applicable local codes. This                                                                                                                  I


  includes proper grounding and
                                                                                                             ~I                                 ""
                                                                             ~NT
                                                                                           6'-0 '!12"
        bonding of the sign.



                                                                                                           E                            0
 NOTICE:                                                                                                                                    I

 ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
                                                                                                                                        to
 BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENT. AS OF
 APPROVAL BY THE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED
 PRIOR TO ANY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
 OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL
 AGREEMENTS FINAL AND TO CLIENT APPROVAL.

 Signed                                   Date
                                                                      FABRICATE AND INSTALL (2) TWO NON-ILLUMINATED WALL DISPLAYS
 Sales Rep.                               Date
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    I




     u'
               )(
              <!!!
                     ~"'
                     0"
                          "E
                          "                         :::!
                                                                         INSTALL NON -ILLUMINATED PLASTIC GEMINI LETTERS STUD MOUNTED
                                                                         TO BUILDING FASCIA. LETTER STYLE FUTURA BOLD. PAINTED RED.
                                                                                                                                                ""
    -
              ;:?;
     c        <D
                     ~8
                     ~ fil
                                                    ~
                                                    L...

          ~
              ""
              :;;:
              C')
              N
                      =El
                     "O
                     ~~
                                                     ro
                                                    0...
          '          ~"5
              0                                     '"Cl
    0 <!"            .0 0
                     ~.<:
                                                     c
    u ,:
      ....    0
                     g-~
                     ~~
                     g!.,,
                                                     ro
                                                    :c
      c     ~                                        Cl
      'OJ:J "(!,_ :~~
                  "-0                               I
     -
    V') ~
              N

               . ~m  ,,; 6
                                                     
                                                     ro
      c       N
              0
              co
                 "'.
                 ""
                 82
                     :;::;'.;]


                                                    .c:
                                                        ~
      0       <O
               cu    "~
                     o:.:::
                                                     Cl
      <J.)    .<::   ~     g.                       I
    z         0
               cu
               E     ""
                     """
                     .~
                                                     Cl)
                                                    :52
      C'V     Q)     mg                              0
                                                    .;,:
    ..c ~ ""'
          "'E
                     n>.
                                                    ({)
     C'V             iij-o
                                                    o6
              ~ ~~
      E       z ..
                EE
                   d                                '"Cl
                                                        ro
    0         0
              ~      ~cf
                     '00
                                                     0
                                                    a'.
                      ~-~
                      O>C/)
                                                     
                                                     ro
                     '(he:
                      "0                            0
                     'O"
                      .. z                          4-
                                                    Cii
                     ~~    .E                       I
                          0

 DRAWING #:                      75383
 PROJECT l.D.:

    SALES DEPT:                  Troy Panagiotis


    DRAWN BY:                 Sean e!Vutell
                                         INSPECTED BY:
    Date: 08.30.12


    Revised:
'-'X_,__ ___;D::..:E::.::S:..:.:IG::::.N.:....T:...;Yc.:..P.=E_ _ _---1$CALE:   %" = 1 '0"                                                                                                                          Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
 OINTERIOR                          0EXTERIOR
 0NEON DISPLAYS                     0CHANNEL LETIERS
 0NON-ILLUM SIGNAGE                 0 REV. CHANNEL LETIERS                                                                          T-0"                   D/F MONUMENT SIGN DISPLAY:
 0DUEL POLE SIGN                    0 SINGLE POLE SIGN                                                                                                     CABINET FABRICATED FROM WHITE PRE-FINISHED
 0MONUMENT SIGN                     0 DIRECTIONAL                                                                                                          ALUMINUM OVER AN INTERNALANGLE IRON
 0CHANGEABLE READER BOARD/ ELE. DISPLAYS                                                                                                                   FRAME. FACES ARE AS NOTED. INTERNAL ILLUM.
            PROJECT TYPE                                                                                                                                   WITH CW/HO FLUORESCENT LAMPS. SIGN IS TO BE




 ~
         NEW CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                  INSTALLED BY OTHERS.
         REMODELING
         TENANT CHANGES
         LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS
         CORPORATE CHANGES
                                                                                                       컄>
                                                                                                       N               M                                                          FUEL TYPES:
         AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                     i;ijmlfili'D#lf@D
      This sign is intended to be
   installed in accordance with the                                                                                                                                           CLEAR ACRYLIC PANEL WITH BLUE
  requirements of Article 600 of the                                                                                                                                          VINYL OVERLAY, COPY REVERSE CUT
     National Electric Code and/or                                                                                                                                            FROM BACKGROUND. ZIP TRACK TO
  other applicable local codes. This                                                                                                                                          HOUSE PANEL(S). GREEN VINYL AS NOTED
                                                                                                                                                                              FOR DIESEL PANEL(S).
    includes proper grounding and
          bonding of the sign.                                                  0
                                                                                    I
                                                                                lo
                                                                                .,....
                                                                                                                                                                                  VINYL COLORS:

                                                                                                                                                                                  ARLON BLUE: 2257 
  NOTICE:
  ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
  BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENT. AS OF                                                                                                                                         3M RED: 3630-33      
  APPROVAL BY THE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED
  PRIOR TO ANY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
  OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL
  AGREEMENTS FINAL AND TO CLIENT APPROVAL.

  Signed                                    Date                                                       t-
                                                                                                                                                                               WIDE FORMAT PRINTED VINYL
                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                        i
                                                                                                                                                                               GRAPHICS APPLIED TO THE FIRST
  Sales Rep.                                Date
                                                                                                                                                       SIGNA.                  SURFACE.

                           'E
               ~
       u "
                            ID
                      -"'
                      oc                              ::::!                                                                                                                       DELFT BLUE: 230-97.
       c "'
          "'          ~8
                                                      .:L
               ""
               :;;:   !~                               .....
                                                       co                                                                                    STONE BASE
                      ~~                              0.                                                                                     IS TO BE BY OTHERS.
        :- "'
           c-J        ~:i                                                                                                                                                          PRINTED GRAPHICS.

     u 0 "  .
           r-
               0      .0 0
                       :u:
                       a.:=:
                      c3
                                                      "'O
                                                       c
                                                       co                                                                                  NOTE: STONE
           r-
               0
                      .=-g
                      ~"'
                                                      :c                                                                                   TO MATCH BUILDING.
       c ~ :~~                                         Ol
                                                      J:
       ~~ ID 'O       .<:~
                                                                                                             3'-8"
      -       N      -o
     V) ~ .E!"fil                                      >.
                      .3"'                             co
       c       N
               0
                      ~:J

                      "'
                      C'O
                      82
                               .                       :s:
                                                      ..c                                     1                               1
       0 "'""         c:l'l
                      o:;:::
                                                       Ol
       C.) .c:
            "'        P! g-                           J:
      z .   "'

                                                                      [
                      ID'O
            E         "'w                              Q)
           0
                      .~                             :52
      C\S      Qi     "'c                              0
     ...c::           ~~                              ~

       C\S ~ l\l-E
                                                      (f)

           i\l ~~                                     ~
       E       Ciio
               z      Ee
                                                      "'O
                                                       co
      0        0

               !
                      ~ci
                      '00
                                                       0
                                                      0::
                      ~.2>                            >.
                                                      co
                      "'Cl)                                                                        2'-5"
                                                                                         1~                     ~1
                      'Ciic:
                       WO
                      'OW
                                                      0
                      ,,z                             4-
                      :C ro
                      f-.<:
                                                      ro
                                                      I
                            "'
                            E
                           0

  DRAWING #:
  PROJECT l.D.:

    SALES DEPT:
                                   75384


                                   Troy Panagiotis
                                                                      (                                              10" RED
                                                                                                                     DIGITS.



    DRAWN BY:                  Sean efvutett
                                           INSPECTED BY:
    Date: 08.30.12


    Revised:
i..:X....:__ ____;D~E:;;.;;S:..:.;IG::;.;N.;_T.:...Y:...:.P-=E'---------1
 0 INTERIOR                          0   EXTERIOR
                                                                            SCALE: 3/16"   =1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                           Station #430 - Highland Park, IL
 0 NEON DISPLAYS                     0   CHANNEL LETTERS
 0 NON-ILLUM SIGNAGE                 0   REV. CHANNEL LETTERS                                                                        24'-0"
 0 DUEL POLE SIGN                    0   SINGLE POLE SIGN
                                                                                                         8'-4 1/32"                                14'-10 31/32"                                         9"
 0MONUMENT SIGN                      0   DIRECTIONAL
 0CHANGEABLE READER BOARD/ ELE. DISPLAYS
                        PROJECT TYPE
                                                                                                    9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
 ~
           NEW CONSTRUCTION
           REMODELING
           TENANT CHANGES
           LANDLORD IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         {g4"                                                     N
           CORPORATE CHANGES                                                                                                                                  .            . _ . ...... .............     l   WHITE LENS.
           AMENDMENTS TO EXCISING SIGNAGE
                                                                                                         WEST.        illuminated.
      This sign is intended to be
   installed in accordance with the
  requirements of Article 600 of the                                                                                                 24'-0"
     National Electric Code and/or
  other applicable local codes. This
    includes proper grounding and
          bonding of the sign.
                                                                                                1



   NOTICE:
   ALL GRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS ARE SUBJECTED
   BY APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZED CLIENT. AS OF
   APPROVAL BY THE UNDERSIGNED AND DATED
                                                                                 Li . . . . _            EAST         non-illuminated.
                                                                                                                                       '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''        ' l

   PRIOR TO ANY FABRICATION OF PRODUCT.
   OMAHA NEON SIGN COMPANY, INC. HOLDS ALL
   AGREEMENTS FINAL AND TO CLIENT APPROVAL.

   Signed                                     Date

   Sales Rep.                                 Date



                         -;!                                                                                                                                                                                          199'-0"
         u "
            <!!           m
                        ~U)                                      _J
                        oc
         c "'
            "'
            r-:
                        ~8
                                                                 .:2

             "
             
                 :;;:
                 (')
                 N
                        H
                        ~:i
                                                                  '-
                                                                  co
                                                                 (l_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     198'-3"                                                                                                       9"


       u .
                 0                                               -0
         0 "            .0 0
                         "-"
                         g~
                                                                  c
           r-
           r-           .=-g                                     ~
                                                                 ..c




                                                                                 c
                 0
                        ~
        c ~
        'Cl) 'J!,_ :~~
                             U)



                                                                 I
                                                                  OJ

       -    N
       V') ~ ~m
                   ())"
                   so
                                                                  >.
                                                                  co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1~4"
         c       N
                 0
                        :;::::::i
                        ~"t)~
                        om
                                                                  ::=:::
                                                                 ..c                                                                                                                                                                            ................................................................................................... . ............ J'cWHITE LENS.
         0       00
                 <D
                        o-
                        a3l                                       OJ
         Q.)                                                     I                                        NORTH.      non-illuminated.
       z "'"'.
                 .c     ()) a.
                        ~"

                 0
                  E     "'"
                        .c: m                                     CJ.)
                        .~                                      :52
       C'V       (;)    "'c                                       0
      ...c              ~~                                       ~


         C'V ~          2-E                                      (/)
                        ~-g                                      eel
             iii
         E       z      "'"'
                        ro
                         EC
                           o                                     -0
                                                                  co
       0         0

                 !
                        ~ci
                        "U()
                                                                  0
                                                                 O'.'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      199'-0"
                         ~.~                                     >.
                                                                 co
                         'Cl)
                        '(ij c                                                                                                                                                                                                  190'-7 31/32"
                         mo                                      0
                        "     ())                                ......
                        uiZ
                        :c   ('()
                        1-- .c                                   ro
                                                                 I
                                                                                                         8'-4 1/32"
                             "
                             E
                             0
                                                                                                    9"

   DRAWING #:                       75385
   PROJECT l.D.:

     SALES DEPT:                    Troy Panagiotis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~4"
     DRAWN BY:                  Sean e(JJ(.tU'ft
                                                                                                         SOUTH.       illuminated.
                                            INSPECTED BY:
     Date: 08.30.12


     Revised: 03.12.13
                                               BUCKY'S EXPRESS
                I'                                4,280 S.F.

      J
     ;wl                                                                                t~J$TIN'G
                                                                                        B"l.J!..DNG
      g~N
      0.1""!
      ?l
      gNa ;z;

                1
     "t
      !
            ,,I
                     11/ll'l/I 11/ISll>>>

                               I



..




                                            HALF DAY ROAD (liL :RTE 22)
                                                     llA~   i\11EDJAN




                                                                          (!)   @   
GROUP EXHIBIT M
Fuel Pump Designs




      20
>      DRESSER WAYNE                                                          I OVATION 3+1
       Note: Please make sure the dispenser surface is cleaned prior                                                         15 '0"
       to applying any of the adhesive backed or sponge tape decals.
                                                                                                                                e
  1.   Clearance Decal - Top of
       decal is l' from canopy.
       Each side facing approach.
                                                                                                                                 ti
 2.    Pump Numbers - Bottom
       of decal is 10' from grade.                                                                                                I

       Numbers face attendant                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                          Al
                                                                                                                     - -렁-
                                                                                                                          " -'-.f
                                                                                                                                I-     -    -




       A              For columns 20"
       ~ or greater in width




                                                                                              I
       ~ For columns between
       ,.... 1O'' and 19" in width

 "l
 J~
       G
       \,,..dt.tupy  GI
                     -.... ..... 1 ...... 톓톖-t     sos
                                                     ~        ...., .. i .                                                  P.O.P. Sign not
       -          1                      ... 1'       
       --~:::::P''

       n1.itmn T.nnnor-
                        1   'H!:11!     V\tjU~           1..Ui-J V$
                                                                                                                             located on this side
 4.    Preferred Placement -
       Warning: Health, Safety,
       No Smoking, Cell Phone,
       Portable Containers.
4a.    Secondary Placement
 5.    Merchandising Pump Topper
       - place directly on MPD top
       except for PA., NJ, NY, CT,
       RI and VT. Use hanging style
       and place price topper
       directly on MPD in these
       states. See M&M Displays
       brochure for proper topper.
                                                                                                                 e
 6.    Credit Card Application -
       place 1" back from edge
       and 1" in from the left.
 7.    Speedpass Card Holder
 8.    Pump Number Decal
 9.    Credit Card Decal
10.    Speedpass Instruction Decal
11.    Octane Rating Decal
12.    Please Pay First Decal;
       Clean Air Nozzle Decal
       (market specific}
                                                                                                                                e
13.    Temperature Decal;
       Oxygenated Gas Decal
       {check local regulations}
14.    Ethanol I Gasohol Deca!-
       {locatlon shown for al! states.
       Refer to state decals for proper
       size decal required).
15.    Ultra-Low Sulphur Decal
16.    CetaneDecal (where required
       by state or local municipality)




                                                                                                  11 rr l l 1 r 1 11rrn1      ~cale:   1 inch= 15 inches
THINK>                                                   IMAGE                                    O"     5"    10"     l5"



THINK>
                                                                                 TM
                                                                                                                                                  Version 8
                                                                                                                                           28 October 2008
>      DRESSER WAYNE                           I VISTA V490UN595

       Note: Please make sure the dispenser surface is deaned prior                                                                              15 '0H
       to applying any of the adhesive backed or sponge tape decals.
                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                      Cf.
  1.   Clearance Decal - Top of
       decal is 1' from canopy.
       Each side facing approach.                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                                        I
  2.   Pump Numbers - Bottom                                                                                                                            I
       of decal is 10' from grade.
       Numbers face attendant.                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                         - -- - - l    L--

                                                 i                                                                     !
        A     for columns 20"

                                                l ...Mobil                                       --렁렁-렁1~'{::'1~I
        W     or greater in width               1

                                                     ..
                                                                                                            I
        A     For columns between
       ~ 10" and 19" in width


  -J;-----톓c:crnupy-con::urr~ ~
                                                                                                                                                 P.O.P. sign not
       Ci      Ar      ~ti   ;     f                                                                                                             located on this side
  4.   Preferred Placement -
       Warning; Health, Safety,
       No Smoking, Cell Phone,
       Portable Containers.
 4a.   Secondary Placement
  5.   Merchandising Pump Topper
       - place directly on MPD top
       except for PA, NJ, NY, CT,
       RI and VT. Use hanging style
       and place price topper
       directly on MPD in these
       states. See M&M Displays
       brochure for proper topper.
                                                                                                                                     e
  6.   Credit Card Application -
       place 1" back from edge
       and 1" in from the left.
  7.   Speedpass Card Holder
  8.   Pump Number Decal
  9.   Credit Card Decal
 10.   Speedpass Instruction Decal
 11.   Octane Rating Decal
 12.   Please Pay First Decal;
       Clean Air Nozzle Decal
       (market specific}
                                                     ,'\).
                                                     r~-
                                                     .,~~\VI         ~
                                                                         lI   .
                                                                                   ~..:='I
                                                                                  ~~ -~   -- i
                                                                                                 1'
                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                          11*''~'''1
                                                                                                       : 톖l~l~'.                              II     e
12a.   Disabled Access Decal
 13.   Temperature Decal;
       Oxygenated Gas Decal
       (check local regulations}
 14.   Ethanol /Gasohol Decal -
       (location shown for all states.
       Refer to state decals for proper
       size decal required).
15.    Ultra-Low Sulphur Decal
16.    Cetane Decal (where required
       by state or local municipality}


                                                                                                                fTTTI      11   ! l I ITITrl        s;cale: 1 inch= 15 inches
THINK>                       IMAGE                                                                              O"         5"      10     is


THINK>
                                                               "fM                                                                                                 Version 8
                                                                                                                                                            28 October 2008
  EXHIBITN

Lighting Proposal




      21
                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTlr-JG BUILDING

                                                       b.o      b.o     bo       ho                  b.o   <(b.o                  b.o    bo     O.o   bo    b.o    bo         bo                                                             I.a          lo     bo            bo       l.o            tio\~   bo     O.o           Oo       o.o     lo       lo              l.o     00        00            lo    b.o    lo     00       o.o    lo
                                                                                                           u
                                               lo      bo       tio     b.o      b.o                 o.o ~.o                      1.o    lo     0.0   bo    b.o    O.o        b.o      b.o    1w         b.o      b.o      O.o               l.o          l.o    o.o           b.o      o.o            lo     \\,     l.o           l.o      o.o     o.o      l.o       o.o   l.o     lo        l.o           lo    l.o    l.o    lo       l.o    o.o
                                                                                                           :>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oo~b.o
                                                                                                           0                                                R-6 MEDIUM DENSIT'Y RESIDENTIAL
                                              tw       b.o      bo      b.o      ti.o                b.o   (-'b.o                 l.o    bo     I.a   l.o   b.o    b.o        bo       b.o    ti.o       b.o      bo       lo                lo           l.o    b.o      ~~Jfc~:~~E bo                                                      l.o     o.o      b.o       l.o   lo      lo        lo            lo    I.a    l.o    lo       lo     l.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CRS-SC-LED-84
                                                                                                           >-
                                                                                                           <(                                                                                                                                                             RESIDENTIAL ZONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '~                                                                                                                          LED Crossover Gold Symmetric Canopy Light
                                              0.0      b.o      tio     b.o      ti.o                o.o 'io.o                    lo     lo     I.a   l.o   ti.a   bo         b.o      b.o    ti.a       b.o      ho       O.o               lo           l.o             ~~i~~~C~E                            ti.a   O.o       'it~         0.1                                                l.o           lo    0.0    l.o    o.o      1.o    1.o

                                              I.a      l.o FurBiE     DE~,~~~                   lo   O.o   "
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                           ,.,.,b.1
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                              b.o      O.o    ti.a N                                         Oo           l.o    bo            ti.o     ti.a           0.o     O.o                                                                              l.o           I.a   0.0    lo     o.o      o.o
                                                                BY OTHERS (CURB)                           <D
                                              tw       bo       bo                                   0.1           b.2                                                                                            J.2      399~              2.o          2.o    '4s           3s                                                                                                     11        l.1           lo    I.a    o.o    o.o      l.o    lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~                                                 D
                                              l.o                                                                                                                                                                 3.1      5.9 ~~-           2.o                 5.7           5s                                                                                                                                   I.a    o.o    o.o      l.o    l.o


                                              l.o                                                                                                                                                                        CARWASH                                                                                                                                                                b.o           Oo    O.o    O.o    bo       b.o    b.o

                                              b.o      0.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,282 SF                                                                                                                                                               tmJ1w1Ni@           O.o    bo     b.o      Oo     1i.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (TYP)
                                              11.o     Oo                                                                                                                                                                           125 S'                                                                                                                                                      O.o           O.o   b.o    Oo     1i.o     O.o    O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUCKY'S EXPRESS
                                              b.o      b.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O.o           bo    ti.a   to     -0.o     ti.a   iJ.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4,706 SF
                                              b.o      bo                                                                                                                                                      FF E.                646 5                                                                                                                                                       b.o           Oo    b.o    O.o    b.o      ti.a   O.o                        XAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LED Crossover Area Light
                                              1.o      l.o      lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bo            ho    b.o    O.o    b.o      bo     b.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~ol
                                              00       lo       lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        : 27       1.9                                        li                         Oo     l.o             00
                                                                                                                                                      11---~~~r-''-H'777~'+,;..T,7r~r-ccc,~--r~"l-"~~._,,,~_,..~_,_~~'-'-,~-'-T~'-f'-~"t--"-;r'----jl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l.o
                                              b.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l1                  O.o    O.o    l.o      l.o    on
                                              l.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               01     ~ b.o        O.o    b.o    b.o      il.o   lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :z:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                              l.o                                                                                                                                                                 25       24         23     2.3          b      2.7           29       Jo             J.1     32     3.4                    JS                                                 b.1 ~ ti.o          l.o    lo     l.o      1.o    bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i:.:
                                              l.o                                                                                                     6.s   6.7    6.3        6.4      64     6.1        6.2      6.o      6.i        60     5.s          6.o    60            63       6.4            6.4     6.9    71     <')     .o      5.3                                                11     t      l.o   \.o    bo     I.a      bo     lo                         SIDEV!EW



                                              b.o      lo                                                                                                   160    12.~  "'   iu      146     i2.9       \48      i2.1     147        141    12.3         14_5   i21           145      14'.l          13.4    165    156                   1u                                                  Oi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :z:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~      tio   b.o    Oo     00              o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :l'
                                              bo       l.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1 2 O.o           O.o    I.a    b.o      O.o    1i.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                              l.o      b.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t.s                                                 b.L    :E     b.o   b.o    lo     I.a      b.o    ln                         XPWS3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ii                                                                       <O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                                                       LED Crossover Wall Mount Light
                                              1.o      O.o      O.o     bo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24          12451:5.6                                      .o tu      fr'.   Oa    ii.a   O.o    lo       O.o    ;,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e.s                                                                                                                                        on
                                              l.o      l.o      O.o     l.o                                                                           9.2   9.7    8.s        91      9o      8.4       9.1       84       9.o        a.a


                                                                                                                                                                                                                )evlDE ~'.\ Tl-t1?.K4PC 3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.e          8.9    83            9o       92

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9.a


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.o   "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            63

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :;;:j,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     j,7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .o 1io            b.o   O.o    00     lo       l.o

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1CSJ1
                                              l.o


                                              lo
                                                       lo

                                                       l.o
                                                                bo

                                                                b.o
                                                                        lo

                                                                        bo
                                                                                                                                                                              34      34      3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                               COl\ICRE!E SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.3    '3.4          j4       Js                                                                                                  .a bt


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ii.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lo


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lo


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00     o.o          PERSPECTIVE VIEW



                                              b.o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ti.o          b.o   b.o    O.o             b.o    l.o


                                              l.o      1i.o     Oo      O.o      O.o     O.o    bo   0.1           0.1      0.1   02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O.o    l.o      b.o    00

                                              iJ.o     lo       00      o.o      00      O.o    lo   o.o           b.L      b.t   bi            l.t   l.2          l.2        02      l.2                                                                                                              l.2     0.3    iJ.4      ls          0.4      0.3     l.3       il.3   l.2     b.1       D.o           lo    b.o    O.a    I.a      l.o    0.0

                                              b.o      bo       00      Oo       O.o     lo     uo   b.o           b.o      b.o          Ol     l.l   01           01         b.l     l.1     11                  ;,       t:aARRIE~.1MEDl.4JflJ          0.1    11           11        01             01      b2     0.2       03          iJ.2     02      ti2       0.1    fu      Oo        1io           lo    b.o    00     o.o      lo     lo

                                              o.o      h.o      00      b.o      0.o     b.o    bo   b.o           b.o      b.o   bo     o.o    O.o   b.1   0.1    bi         b.1     b.1     bi        tl.l      DI       b.1        0.1    01           0.1    l1            01       0.1            11      b.L    0.1       1t.2        1J,1     0.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o.R olf i<1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             01N l.Q                                          bn    b.o    ;,     b.o      b.o    b.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                @       

                                                                                                       LuMinoire Schedule
                                                                                                                                   Qty            label                       Arro.nger>ient                           Description                                                                                                           LLF           LuMens/Lo.rip            Arr. LUM. LUMens                       Arr. \./o.tts

                                                                                                                     l!!I          18                                         SINGLE                                   CRS-SC-LED-84 -HD-C\v'-UE                                                                                             1.000         N.A.                     14570                                  147
                                                                                                                                                                              SINGLE                                   XAM3-FT-LED-119-450-C'W-UE-HSSl3-SINLCiE-20' POLE +                                                                   1.000         N.A.                     8093                                   184
                                                                                                                                                                              D180                                     XAM3-FT-LED-119-450-C\./-UE- D180-20'PDLE +2" BASE                                                                    1.000         N.A.                     24686                                  368
                                                                                                                                                                              SINGLE                                   XP\JS 3-FT -LE D-48-4 50-C\./-UE                                                                                      1.000         NA                       4813                                   67.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Totnl Project \.Jntts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Toto.l \./o.tts = 4088.5

                                                                                                                                  Colculo.tion SuMMo.ry
                                                                                                                                  Loloo:?l                                    Co.le Type                  Units                                    Mox                  Min                     Avg/Min               Mc.x/Min                                    Footcand!e levets i:o,ken o.t gro.de

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o.o


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         b
                                                                                                                                  ALL CALC POINTS                             llh.1Mlno.nce               Fe                 2.54                  36.3                                         N.A.                  M.A.                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                  RESJDENTJAL PL READINGS                                                 Fe                 o.oo                  o.o                  0.0                     N.A.                  N.A.

Based on the inForru;ltoon provided, oll dl..,ens1ons and h.m1no.1re loco.t1ons
                                                                                                                                  CMIOPY
                                                                                                                                  JNTERIORLOT
                                                                                                                                                                              llluriinance
                                                                                                                                                                              lllurilnance
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fe
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.!B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N.A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t.64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              leJl ""OllWIX-""'"''"l<""'''""""'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDUSTRIES"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .,.,,,,.,,.,,.,.,,,,, .............
shown repr!!S(>nt recoMMended posit<0ns, The enginE'e'' and/or architect r'!Ust
dete'.:riint> th<:> o.ppllco.b1llty of' the ta.yout to e>;,lsting or future field conditions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIGHTING PROPOSAL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BUCKY'S
This lighting plo.n represents 1llurilnotian levels calculated fral'l laboratory data
taken vndeo- controlled concilt;ons In accorcio.nce with The ll\uMlno.tlng Englneei-lng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l-IALFDAYRDrlO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H[GHLAND PARK.IL
Socl<-ty <IESl Qpproved r'ethocls. Actuo.l perfot'"nance of ony M\\nufocturer's lu,,lno.lres
May VO.l'"Y ciue to changes In electrical voltage, tolerance In kl"ps/LED's and other                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r----zon ----I SCALE<1'20'             L0-111320-5
vorinble field conditions. Calculations do not include obstructlOflS such as bl.<1l'1ings,
cu1톌s, landscaping, or any other ot'"chotecturol elerients unlt>ss noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET     I OF    1
 EXHIBITO

Site Utility Plan




      22
                                                                                                                                          UTILITY NOTES                                                                                                         ARC)DESI N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J       f~E30Ui~CES            l!\JC.
                                                                                                                                         L SANITARY SEWER Ai'-'ll WAT(;~ MAIN CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM TO THE STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR WATER
                                                                                                                                           AND SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION IN ll!.INOIS, CURRENT EDITION AND THE VILLAGE OF BUFFALO GROVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . .. i ...
                                                                                                                                         2. EXISTING UTILITY INFORMATION IS SHOWN FROM SURVEY WORK, FIEl.D OBSERVATIONS, AVAILABLE PUBLIC RECORDS ANO
                                                                                                                                            AS-BUilT DRAWINGS. EXACT LOCATJDNS, SIZES. AND aevATIONS Of UTILITIES SHALL BE DETERMINED PRIOR TO
                                                                                                                                            INSTALllNG NEW WORK. EXCAVATE TEST PITS AS REQUmED.                                                                                           : ~~E~C~~~f~~~i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ; VOICE: {816)484-4300
                                                                                                                                         3. CONTACT All PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UTILITY COMPANIES 46 HOIJ~S PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION. COST OF                                                     ! FAX: (615) 4&1 ~4303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ! www.ttttd&d9r1.~om
                                                                                                                                             REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR Of EXISTING UTILITIES DAMAGED AS A RESULT OF THE      CONTRACTOR~    OPERATION SHALL BE                           Doilq:l Ftm CCGnlll No. 18-1-001334
                                                                                                                                             THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !
                                                                                                                                         4. THE CONTRACTOR SHAU FIELD VERIFY THE ELEVATIONS OF THE BENCHMARKS PRIOR TO COMMENCING WORK. THE
                                                                                                                                             CONTRACTOR SHALL ALSO FIELD VERIFY LOCATION, ELEVATION AND SIZE OF EXISTIN<3 UTILITIES, AND VERIFY FLOOR,
                                                                                                                                             CURB OR PAVEMEMT ELEVATIONS WHERE MATCHIM<3 INTO EXISTING WORK. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FELD VERIFY                                   PROJECT NAME
                                                                                                                                             HORIZONTAL CONTROL BY REFERENCING SHOWN COORDINATES TO KNOWN PROPERTY LINES. MOTIFY ENGINEER OF                                    OWNER톝 NAME
                                                                                                                                             DISCREPANCIES IN EITHER VERTICAL CONTROL PRIOR TO PiOCEEDING WITH WORK.
                                                                                                                                         5, BACKFLOW PREVEMTIOM DEVICES AND THE DOMESTIC WATER METER ARE LOCATED WITHIN THE BUWNG. REFER TO                             BUCKY'S
                                                                                                                                             BUWING PLUMBING PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                         6. REFl:R TO BUILDING PLANS FOR EXACT LOCATIONS OF NEW UTILITY ENTRIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HIGHLAND PARK, IL
                                                                                                                                         7. CONTRACTOR SHALL SET All CLEANOUT, MANHOLE AND INLET CASTINGS, FIRE HYDRANTS AND VALVE BOXES TO
                                                                                                                                            FINISHED GRADE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HALF DAY ROAD (IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RTE 22) & SKOKIE
                                                                                                                                         8. ALL TRENCHES WITHN PAVED AREAS AND A MINIMUM OF 2 FEET BEYOND ALL CURB LNES SHAU BE BACKFlLLEO WITH                         HIGHWAY (U.S. 41)
                                                                                                                                            AN APPROVED GRANULAR MATERIAL. COMPACTED TO A MINIMUM OF 95~.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RICHARD MCMAHON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5412 REGENTS PAR!< ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROCKFORD, IL 61107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHONE (402) 718-6724


                                                                                                                                         L쥸END                                                                                                                         F       CONSULTANTS

                                                                                                                                        -- -               -      - - PROPERTY LINE                                           PROPOSED TRANSFORMER
                                                                                                                                        --------   5--~,...,         EXISTING WATER MAlf\J                                 EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT ASSEMBLY
                                                                                                                                        - - W - - PROPOSED WATER MAIN                                                         EXISTIMG WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING SANITARY SEVVER                                                    PROPOSED WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                        - - - ( ; - - PROPOSED SANITARY SEVIER                                                EXISTING MANHOLE OR CATCH BASIN                                                            ,,
                                                                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING STORM SEVVER                   @             PROPOSED MANHOLE
                                                                                                                             BULDING    ~--                             PROPOSED STORM SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (~            EXISTING SANITARY MANHOLE                         ISSUED FOR

                                                                                                                                              -E:!J-                    PROPOSED SAND/Oil SEPARATOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                f5            EXISTING UT:UTY POLE                               ~SU!l.!llTi!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rn-liln
                                                                                                                                        ----- ('  - - -  EXISTING GAS MAIM                                                  EXISTING LIGHT POLE                                CITY SLllMITTi!           11--0S-lilQ
                               -T               exisl. son. mh                                                                          - - G- -                        PROPOSED GAS MAIN
                                                dm " 645.25 A JUST TO 645.41



                      ~ I
                                            r   lnv."' 638.63 ($ 4" pvc} ABANDON                                                        - - UEIT - - PROPOSED UNDERGROUND ELECTRIC/PHONE SERVICE

                     @
                                /
                                    j
                                        /       inv 638.58 (n 6 pvc)
                                                inv"' -638,53 (v 6" pvc)

                                                                                    LNCaGR.OtN:l FUEL
                                                                                                                                        - - C톃 - -                     EXISTING OVERHEAD LITUTY LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I=
                         . /~
                         )/    .                                                   STORAGE TAf'K (lJ.5.T,)
                                                                                    Al!EA (SEE Gl!AOlNG
                                                                                           PW!)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R~ISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.       ITEM                 OATE
                                                                                                                                               KEY NOT즅                                                                                                                     r-
                                                                                                                                                 ~~l-(6,S(ltjj)~<s~.IH'.%\\ls\'1~~t11\~G~~Fftj~y~~~ h~A~~ST., VERIFY EXIST. INV., PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ar-                           I=
                                                                                                                                         @
                                                                                                                                         (i)     49 LF 6' SAN. S\\'R, ;) 1.0'!.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.(-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.[--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I=
                                                                                                                                          ~~1-(6.S~E)L -~39uf~. ~~REl":s~~HJ:f~J'M'2R6?.~~1~r12~ ~~~~~~;b'll\RrE~~~~J~~: PROPOSED                                         q-
                                                                                                                                         @       ~lft~'.fAP (RE: ARCH.) INV. (OUT) 639.50 (INSTALL 5 LF 4 SAN. SWR. DISCHARGE PIPE@ 1.0'!. TO                             7.f-
                                                                                                                                          10 LF 4 SAN. SWR.@ 2.0~. DOUBLE WYE CLEANOUT 5' FROM BUILDING WALL INV@ WALL 639.70
                                                                                                                                         @       29 LF 4 SAN. SWR.  tS'!.. DOUBLE WYE CLEANOUT 5' FROM BUILDNG WAL!.. !NV  WALL  639.70
                                                                                                                                         @       40 .Lf 6' SAN. SWR.  2.0$                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                         (J)     WATER RECLAMATION SYSTEM, 6' DISCHARGE PIPE INV 640.14, (RE: CARWASH VENDOR DETAILS)
                                                                                                                                         @       EXISTING 6  SAN. SWR.                                                                                             '                                                    ./


                                                                                                                                          EXISTING a SAN. SWR.                                                                                                                SH＃T TITLE                              ~
                        e.ds.t. <.;on. mh                                                                                                @)      (2) 2' RETURN LINES, CRE,CARWASH VENDOR DETALS)
                     \_
                        rtm .. 645.86
                        hw = 632.46 (nw B pvd                             ,                                                             췗AD MOUNTED TRANSFORMER PAD BY <lENERAL CONTRACTOR                                                                                    SITE
                         :::g:~t(~\~r> HALF' DAY ROAD (IL RTE 22)                                                                        @ ~Er~R~~M"il쩰[r21~raa1l~~M-~.CE AT STORM SEW!;~ CROSSIN'3S. MAINTAN JB' VE!:TICAL                                                    UTILITY
                                                                                                                                         @) 4 <3ATE VALVE ASSEMBLY                                                                                                             PLAN
                                                                                                                                          ?tcfuMt~~.VICE. COORD. CONNECTION WI SERVICE PROVIDER. RE: ARCH. FOR ENTRY AND METER
                                                                                                                                         @)      TELEPHONE SERVICE. CONNECTION WI SERVICE PROVIDER.
                                                                                                                                         @       ELECTRIC SERVICE. COORD. CO~N:CTION W/ SERVICE PROVIDER.                                                                                                                ,I
                                                                                                                                          mw~~~jj l&ll'fikR~~1/J~lr!l'f~.Al CONTRACTOR FROM TRANSFORMER TO BUILDING. RE: ARCH. FOR                                            DRAWli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C~ll?CKEO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PM                           PM
                                                                                                             N 0   R T   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r               PROJE"CT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHE:E.T NUMGtR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12013
COPYR!Olii :201.2.                                                                                                                                                                        Not For Construction                                                                            C3
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION


DATE REFERRED:                   November 19, 2013

ORIGINATED BY:                   Department of Community Development

SUBJECT:        Concurrent Public Hearings for 807- 833 Laurel Avenue:

                Public Hearing 12-05-REZ-001 for a proposed Zoning Map Amendment from RM1A
                Medium-to-High Density Multiple Family Residential District to RO High Density
                Residential/Office District; and,

                Public Hearing 12-05-PUD-002 for a Special Use in the Nature of a Preliminary and
                Final Planned Development with Subdivision (12-05-SUB-002) for a Proposed 52-Unit
                Multiple Family Building to be Constructed in Two Phases, with Requested
                Modifications from the Zoning Requirements Regulating Front and Side Yard Setback,
                Building Height, and Lot Coverage.

SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND OF SUBJECT MATTER:

The applicant in this matter, Fulton Developers (Fulton), is the owner of the properties located at 807,
819, 825, and 833 Laurel Avenue. Fulton is proposing to develop a 52 unit multiple-family building in
two phases.

Plan Commission Process: Based on the nature of the proposed development, the applicant will be
requesting the following approvals from the City of Highland Park:

    -   Zoning Map Amendment from the RM1A Medium-to-High Density to the RO High Density
        Residential/Office zoning district (Zoning Code Article XV
    -   Subdivision of the subject property into a single lot (City Code Chapter 151);
    -   Special Use in the Nature of a Planned Development (concurrent Preliminary and Final
        consideration) with modifications (Zoning Code Articles V and XIV)

In addition to Plan Commission consideration, the Design Review Commission will review the exterior
design features of the building and landscape design; the Housing Commission will review the affordable
housing aspects of the proposed development in advance of Plan Commission's final recommendation
and City Council consideration.

The demolition of the existing single family houses does not require Historic Preservation Commission
review because structures in the RM1A zoning district are not subject to demolition review/delay.

Subject Property: The site is located on the north side of Laurel Avenue, between McGovern and
Hickory Streets, which is situated to the west of downtown Highland Park and is included in the Central
District planning area. Laurel Avenue is a primary arterial roadway connecting downtown to U.S.
Highway 41 and destinations to the west. The property is zoned in the RM1A multiple family zoning
district, 22 du/ac, with no commercial uses permitted. Permitted density in the RO zoning district along
and east of Green Bay Road is 50 dwelling units per acre. Further west and south of the subject property
are a range of lower density zoning districts including RM1 Multiple Family (15 du/ac); R6 (6 du/ac); R5
(3.5 du/ac); and, R4 Single Family (2 du/ac).




                                                                                                           1
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION




 To date, only the adjacent 15-unit Laurel Court Phase I townhome development has been developed in the
 RM1A zoning district, where the subject property is located. That project was approved by City Council
 in 2006 and constructed in 2007.


Subject
 Site




                                                                                                     2
                 REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION


Development Proposal

Applicant and Property Owner: Fulton Developers

Subject Location: 807, 819, 825, and 833 Laurel Avenue

Total Property Area: 38,000 square feet; each individual lot is 9,500 square feet. Each individual lot is
undersized for the minimum required lot area in the current RM1A and the proposed RO zoning district.
Both the RM1A and RO districts require 21,780 square feet of lot area for development of multiple-
family residential.

Subject Planning District: Central District

Subject Zoning: RM1A Medium-to-High Density Multiple-Family Residential (permits 1 dwelling per
1,980 square feet of land area (22 dwelling units per acre)

Proposed Zoning: RO High Density Residential/Office (permits 1 dwelling per 871 square feet of land
area (50 dwelling units per acre))


Surrounding Zoning/               LOCATION             ZONING            EXISTING LAND USE
 Land Use:
                                      North               B4                Service Commercial
                                       West             RM1A                  Multiple Family
                                                                        Single Family Residential
                                       East             RM1A            and Institutional (Church)
                                                                                    Use
                                                                       Multiple Family Townhouse
                                                                          Residential (partially
                                      South              RM1
                                                                           occupied and under
                                                                              construction)

Existing Land Use: Two residential structures containing 6 dwelling units (807 (2 dwelling units) and
819 Laurel (4 units))

                                              Applicable Zoning                      Proposed Development
                                           Requirement (RO zoning)
    Minimum Lot Area for MF
                                                   21,780 sq ft                             38,000 sq ft
         Development
                                                                               52 units total  26 units per -phase 1
                                                                               (22 market rate and 4 affordable
                                         52 inclusive of affordable units
    Dwelling Units Permitted                                                   units per phase.)
                                                 and bonus units
                                                                               (16) one-bedroom units per phase
                                                                               (10) two-bedroom units per phase
       Front Yard Setback                              25 ft                      10 ft (modification requested)
                                        10 for first 15 ft of building plus
            Side Yards                                                            10 ft (modification requested)
                                         3 ft per each 10 ft of additional
1
 Pursuant to Highland Park Code, upon completion the project is considered one building in that there is a single
foundation inclusive of the underground parking structure under the total project..




                                                                                                                    3
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

                                              building height
                                       20 ft; or 20% of Lot Depth,
           Rear Yard                                                                    48 ft
                                             whichever is less
                                                                              45 ft-11 in (modification
   Maximum Building Height                         45 ft
                                                                                     requested)
          Lot Coverage                           33.3%                     51.7% (modification requested)
                                     49 per phase/98 total (including          49 per phase, 98 total
                                                 guest)
                                                                            Underground parking requires
                                      Alternative plan (sheet A4-B)        relief in some aspects for some
                                                proposed                   parking spaces and aisle widths
       Off-Street Parking
                                      46 spaces/92 total (including           less than the required size
                                                  guest)
                                                                            Alternative plan would seek
                                                                                   modification

                                                                          21.7% plus common green roof
      Open Space proposed                          20%
                                                                               space (after Phase II)
                                                                           Vehicle access to surface and
           Site Access                                                    underground parking from alley
                                                                           behind the proposed buildings
                                        Applicable Subdivision
                                                                              Proposed Development
                                      Requirement (Chapter 151)
                                      Along Adjacent Right of Way
     Burial of Utility Lines                                                      Relief Requested
                                                (Alley)

The proposed development was twice presented to the Plan Commission in pre-application discussions
sessions. In May 2012 the applicant presented a very similar plan including rezoning of the subject
property. In December 2012 the applicant proposed a similar plan but was no longer requesting that the
property be rezoned and was instead looking for direction from the Plan Commission on a project
including 52 units to be constructed on the subject property through proposed amendment to provisions of
the Planned Development process.

Proposed Zoning Map Amendment  Comparison of Zoning District Requirements

In order to develop the subject property to the proposed 52 units, which would exceed the allowable
density under the current zoning, the developer is seeking to have the zoning of the subject site changed
from the current RM1A district to the RO zoning district. Under the RM1A zoning district the maximum
number of dwelling units that can be built, inclusive of all bonuses for providing affordable housing under
the requirements of the inclusionary housing regulations is 25. In comparison, with an RO zoning
designation the maximum number of units that can be developed inclusive of bonuses is 53.

The differences between the current and proposed zoning regulations are shown in the following table:

                                             Existing RM1A                        Proposed RO
Minimum Average Width                              50 ft                              50 ft
Minimum Lot Area for MF Use                    21,780 sq ft                        21,780 sq ft
Minimum Lot Area per DU                        1,980 sq ft                          871 sq ft
Permitted Density                               22 du/ac                            50 du/ac
Minimum Front Yard                                 10 ft                              25 ft




                                                                                                          4
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

Minimum Side Yard                                   10 ft                              10 ft
Minimum Rear Yard                       10 ft; or 20 if adjacent to a      20 ft; or 20% of Lot Depth,
                                             residential district                whichever is less
Maximum Height                         40 ft; maximum of 3 stories                     45 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                               33.3%                              33.3%

Standards for a Zoning Map Amendment  Set Forth in Article XV of the Zoning Code

In this matter, the subject site zoning is paramount. The Commission must make a recommendation to the
City Council in support of the proposed zoning map amendment if it is to make a favorable
recommendation for the proposed Planned Development. In consideration of this matter, the Commission
must take the following standards into account when considering the proposed Zoning Map Amendment:

    1. The existing uses and zoning of nearby properties;
    2. The extent to which property values are diminished by the existing zoning;
    3. The extent to which the existing zoning and/or proposed zoning promotes the general health,
       safety, and welfare of the citizenry of the City;
    4. The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed upon the petitioner;
    5. The suitability of the subject property for the purposes for which it is presently zoned;
    6. The length of time that the subject property has been vacant, as presently zoned, considered in the
       context of the land development in the area in which the property is located;
    7. The compatibility of existing zoning as compared to the compatibility of the proposed zoning
       with the existing Master Plan; and
    8. The evidence or lack of evidence of community need for the use proposed by the petitioner which
       would require the zoning amendment.

Proposed Subdivision

Re-Subdivision: The
applicant is proposing that
the existing four-lot subject
property re-subdivided
through the subdivision
process so that the
development will occur in
two phases on a single lot
(see attached property
survey). Phase I includes 825
and 833 Laurel Avenue and
Phase II includes 807 and
819 Laurel Avenue. The
applicant has submitted a
Plat of Subdivision for the
Plan Commission's review.
The applicant is seeking
relief from the requirement to
bury overhead utilities on
right-of-way adjacent to the
subject property.




                                                                                                         5
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION


Proposed Planned Development

The developer has applied for a special use in the nature of a planned development to allow for the
construction of the 52-unit multiple family development project, to be completed in two phases. At this
time the developer is seeking both Preliminary and Final Planned Development approval. Each
development phase would be developed on 19,000 square feet of land area and contain 26 total units.
After completion of the first phase the building would contain 22 market rate units and 4 affordable units.
The project phasing of the Planned Development is as follows:

Phase I: 26 dwellings units in the westernmost portion of the building, 50% of the parking structure and
the retention of the two existing houses located at 807 and 819 Laurel Avenue.




Phase II: Demolition of the existing single family residences and construction of the balance of the
building including 26 additional dwelling units for a total of 52 and the remaining 50% of the
underground parking structure.




                                                                                                           6
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION




Although the street level appearance of the development will appear as two buildings, the underground
parking garage will be beneath the entirety of the development with doors and openings from the two
phases into the singular space of the garage. The communication of these doors an opening into the
common garage is, by the zoning code definition of "Building," one building, not two separate buildings.

Planned Development Standards

Pursuant to Section 150.520 Site Planning Constraints and Design Standards, The applicant for a
Planned Development must demonstrate to the Plan Commission and the City Council that the
proposed Planned Development satisfies and incorporates, to the greatest extent practicable, the
following site design standards which, where applicable have been evaluated by the Department
of Community Development in the bolded text following the standards:

(A)    Protection of the Public Health, Safety, and Welfare. The uses and structures within the
Planned Development shall be compatible with one another, in that they are designed, located,
and proposed to be operated so that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected.

(B)     Preservation of Environmentally Sensitive Areas.

(1)     No development shall occur in any Environmentally Sensitive Area located on the subject
property, except upon approval of a modification therefore, in accordance with Section
150.510(B) of this Article. (No environmentally sensitive areas have been indentified on the
site.)




                                                                                                           7
                 REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

(2)     Environmentally Sensitive Areas located on the subject property may be included as
common open space within a Planned Development, upon either (a) identification of such areas
on the plat of subdivision as a separate lot or lots, or (b) recordation by the applicant of a
conservation easement or similar restriction that ensures the preservation of such areas, in
perpetuity, from future development. (No environmentally sensitive areas are found or
included as common open space in the proposed development plan.)

(C)      Historic Resources. The Planned Development shall preserve all (1) locally designated
landmarks, and (2) properties, structures, areas, objects, and landscapes determined to be
historically significant by the Historic Preservation Commission in accordance with Chapters 24
or 170 of the Code. (No historic resources are found on the subject property. The homes
proposed to be demolished are exempt from Demolition Delay review by the Historic
Preservation Commission.

(D)     Clustering New Development. The Planned Development shall preserve the structures,
landscapes, scenic view sheds, and other natural and historic features of the subject property,
through (i) clustering of lots or building pads, (ii) adaptive reuse of existing structures, and (iii)
the protection of designated open space from development; provided, however, that clustering of
development shall not be required upon a demonstration by the applicant, to the satisfaction of the
Plan Commission and the City Council, that there are no features on the subject property worthy
of preservation, or that those features worthy of preservation will be more effectively preserved
by not clustering development.

All clustering shall be designed in accordance with the following standards:

       (1)     Lots shall be configured to minimize the length of roadways required for the
proposed Planned Development.

       (2)     Building envelopes shall be configured to minimize the loss of, and damage to,
Environmentally Sensitive Areas located on the subject property.

        (3)     All residential units shall be grouped into clusters, in accordance with the
following:

                (a)   Each cluster shall contain not less than three dwelling units, and not
more than 10 single-family detached dwelling units nor more than 20 of all other types of
dwelling units.

                (b)    To the extent practicable, residential clusters shall be located so as to (i)
minimize negative impacts on the natural and cultural resources on the site, (ii) minimize
conflicts between incompatible uses, (iii) minimize disturbance to Environmentally Sensitive
Areas, and (iv) protect existing historic buildings and landscapes. (Not applicable as the
development is not proposed to be clustered.)

The building clustering requirements set forth above are not applicable to the proposed
development. No new roadways are proposed by the applicant and there are no environmentally
sensitive features present to be preserved through clustering.)

(E)     Location of Structures. All structures to be located within the Planned Development shall
(1) be related harmoniously to the terrain and to existing structures in the vicinity of the subject




                                                                                                         8
                  REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

property, and (2) have a visual relationship to existing nearby structures; (The proposed
multiple-family building is located in an area characterized by multiple family land use.)

(F)     Environmental Quality and Responsible Design. The Planned Development shall be
consistent with the City of Highland Park Environmental Policy and with the City of Highland
Park Checklist for Environmentally Responsible Design and Construction. The applicant may
demonstrate consistency with standards established for site design and building construction
practices by referencing known sustainable development and green architecture rating systems.
(The applicant will address these design issues at the public hearing)

(G)      Preservation of Landscapes. The landscapes within the Planned Development shall be
preserved in their natural states, insofar as practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal. All
proposed grade changes shall be consistent with the general appearance of neighboring developed
areas. (The applicant will be removing all of the trees from the subject property. In advance
of any tree removal, the applicant will be notified of the obligations for tree replacement
under the requirements of the City of Highland Park Code.)

(H)    Schools, Parks, and Public Facilities. The Planned Development shall not impose an
undue burden on parks, recreational areas, schools, or other public facilities that serve or are
proposed to serve the Planned Development. (To be determined by the Plan Commission.)

The estimated population and student generation for the development is the following 2

               # Units by #         Pop. Pre-    Students    Students                  Total
                Bedrooms               K           K-8          HS         Adult      Persons     Pop/DU
             32 One Bedroom            2            1            0          53          57         1.78
             20 Two Bedroom            3            2            1          35          40         2.00
              52 Units Total           5            3            1          88          97         1.87


(I)      Relationship and Connection to Adjoining Land. The Planned Development shall not be
designed as an enclave separate from adjacent properties, unless existing development patterns,
natural features, and/or topographic conditions prevent vehicular or pedestrian access connections
to adjacent properties. In order to achieve connectivity to adjoining land, all lots, streets,
sidewalks and/or paths within a Planned Development shall be designed, to the extent practicable,
to allow for the continuation of such existing or proposed features to adjoining areas. New
streets, sidewalks, and/or paths located within a proposed Planned Development shall be
constructed and installed to the boundaries of the proposed Planned Development if the City
Council determines, in its sole discretion, that the proposed Planned Development adjoins land
with the potential of being subdivided or resubdivided. (The proposed development exists
within an already developed area that is accessible by pedestrians to many community
facilities including downtown Highland Park and major recreation and civic facilities.)




2
  Based on population generation rates prepared for the City of Naperville and incorporated in the City;s Subdivision
regulation (2013).




                                                                                                                   9
               REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

(J)     Setbacks from the Periphery of the Planned
Development. The required front, rear, and side yards along the    Illustration of Side Yard Setback
periphery of the Planned Development shall be of a size not less      Requirements for Additional
than the greater of (1) the minimum front, rear, and side yard     Setback based on building height
requirements of the underlying Zoning District in which the
Planned Development is located, and (2) the minimum front, rear,
and side yard requirements of the adjacent Zoning District.

Front yard: The proposed development does not meet the
required front or side yard setbacks. It does meet the
required rear yard setbacks.

Setbacks       Applicable Zoning         Proposed
               Requirement (RO          Development
                    zoning)



                                            10 ft
Front Yard            25 ft             (modification
                                         requested)


               10 for first 15 ft of
              building plus 3 ft per       <10 ft
Side Yards        each 10 ft of         (modification
               additional building       requested)
                      height
              20 ft; or 20% of Lot
Rear Yard     Depth, whichever is            48 ft
                       less




                                                                                                       10
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION




                                                                                              Front and side
                                                                                              yard relief needed
                                                                                              in highlighted
                                                                                              areas.




(K)     Functional and Mechanical Features. Exposed storage areas, trash containers, recycling
container space, exposed machinery installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility
buildings and structures, and similar accessory areas and structures shall be (1) identified on the
site plan required pursuant to Section 150.525(A)(9) of this Chapter, (2) incorporated into
common areas of the development, (3) made as unobtrusive as possible, and (4) designed,
landscaped, and screened in accordance with the requirements set forth in Article XXII of this
Chapter and of Chapter 176 of the Code. (The proposed trash storage area is located off the
alley and is illustrated as being screened in the submitted plans.)

(L)      Distance Between Buildings. The minimum horizontal distance between any two new
buildings to be located on the subject property, or between any new building and an existing
building (including building appurtenances), shall be not less than 15 feet; provided, however,
that this Section 150.520(L) shall not apply to buildings that (1) share a common wall, and (2)
have individual entrances and exits. (The proposed development meets this standard.)

(M)      Surface Water Drainage. In accordance with the stormwater management regulations set
forth in Article XVIII of this Chapter, surface drainage systems serving the subject property shall
be designed to prevent surface waters from adversely affecting neighboring properties or the
public stormwater drainage system. Surface water in all paved areas shall be collected at intervals
so as to prevent obstruction of the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic. The design of the




                                                                                                         11
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

stormwater management system shall enhance natural stormwater storage areas such as high-
quality aquatic resources and regulatory floodplains, and may incorporate natural stormwater
management techniques commonly referred to as low impact development techniques or best
management practices. (The proposed plans do not show the provision of stormwater
detention facilities. The Engineering Division is currently reviewing the submitted plans
and applicant calculations and the City Code (Watershed Development Ordinance) to
determine whether stormwater detention facilities are required. Additional information
may be available at the public hearing.)

(N)     Ingress to and egress from the Planned Development shall be designed to (1) promote safe
vehicular movements, (2) minimize traffic congestion in the public streets outside the Planned
Development, and (3) facilitate the free flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic within the Planned
Development.

(Vehicular access into and out of the development is all off of the public alley to the rear of the
property. This is an actively used alley providing access to commercial uses on Central Avenue and
residential uses on Laurel and McGovern in addition to being a part of the parking pick-up and
drop-off area for the Bethany Methodist Church and daycare program located on Laurel and
McGovern. The applicant has submitted a Traffic Impact Study (attached), prepared by Gewalt
Hamilton Associates, Inc. The consultant's conclusion is as follows:

                Based on our observations and analyses we feel that the existing alley
                and roadway networks can readily accommodate the traffic generations
                associated with this type of residential development with the
                implementation of the recommended traffic operations plan.
                Furthermore, it is our finding that the proposed parking supply is more
                than sufficient to meet the City's criteria and could be further reduced
                to potentially provide additional public space or wider marked spaces
                for guests and residents.

Gewalt Hamilton Associates has recommended the following actions to accommodate the
residential traffic associated with the Laurel Court II development.

            -   The new site access should be under Stop Sign control
            -   One inbound and one outbound lane should be provided at the site access.)

                             Site Photos of the Alley behind Laurel Avenue
                    Alley view south to Laurel                 Alley view to the east




                Alley looking west to Hickory St.             Alley view north to Central




                                                                                                       12
                    REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION




Off-Street Parking
                                Proposed Off-Street Parking Plan                   Alternative Off-Street Parking Plan
                                Phase I    Phase II       Total                  Phase I        Phase II          Total
# Proposed Dwelling               26          26           52                      26              26              52
Units
For Dwelling                      44/5            44/5            88/10            46/na              46/na                92/na
Units/Guest Parking
Total Off-Street                    49             49              98               49                  49                   98
Parking Required
On-Site Parking                     49             54              103              46                  51                   97
Provided 3,4
Reservation for long-               0               (5)            (5)               0                  (5)                 (5)
term lease parking for
806-824 Central Avenue
Development Available               49             49              98               46                  46                 92
Parking                                                         1.88/du                                                 1.76/du
Development Available              Yes             Yes            Yes             No                  No                  No
Parking Meets Net                                                             (modification       (modification       (modification
Parking Required                                                                needed)             needed)             needed)
(assumes reduction for
proximity to public
transit)?




3
  The combined length (58 feet) of the parking stalls (18 feet) and drive aisles (22 feet) in the underground parking structure do
not meet the required combined length of 61 feet  6 inches set forth in the zoning code.
4
  Only two spaces for the physically handicapped are illustrated on the submitted plan. Four handicapped parking spaces are
required for an off-street parking facility of this size. In addition, the two handicapped spaces are located at the alley and none are
in the underground parking structure.




                                                                                                                                    13
               REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

Proposed Underground Parking Configuration Which Meets Zoning Code Requirements




O)     Streets, Alleys, and Public Ways. The streets, alleys, and other public and private traffic

thoroughfares located within the Planned Development shall conform to the applicable
requirements set forth in Section 151.004 of the Subdivision Ordinance, as may be modified upon
the recommendation of the Director of Public Works and the approval by the City Council. The
City Council may, in its sole discretion, require that streets located within the Planned
Development be stubbed in order to provide for future connections to adjacent developments. (No
new thoroughfares are proposed.)

(P)    Common Ownership or Control.

               (1)    During Development. During the development process and until such
time that the development is turned over to an owners' association or equivalent entity, all
common areas within buildings, common open space, landscaping, exterior maintenance areas,
and all other exterior aspects of the development located within the proposed Planned
Development shall be on a tract or tracts of land under common ownership or control. (The
property is owned by Fulton Developers)




                                                                                                     14
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

                 (2)     Upon Completion of Development. The owners' association or
equivalent entity, upon its establishment, shall be responsible for all obligations set forth in (a)
the ordinance approving the Planned Development, adopted pursuant to Section 150.540(C) of
this Article, (b) any associated development agreement pertinent to the Planned Development,
and (c) the declaration of covenants, or similar recorded document, establishing the owners'
association or equivalent entity. (Not applicable  the proposed development is projected to be
rental housing.)

(Q)     Additional Standards for Planned Developments That Include Residential Uses.
                                                                                                       Under RO
                (1)     Residential Density.
                                                                                                       Zoning
                                                                                                       Requirements
                          (a)    ...the
residential density of the Planned Development
shall not exceed in number the maximum
number of dwelling units that could be
achieved through a conventional subdivision of
the site, as demonstrated by the subdivision
sketch plan....(This is a requirement most
applicable to single family residential
development. The applicant has submitted
an illustration of the development footprint
allowable in the RM1A zoning district and
the RO zoning. The proposed density of the
development is compliant with the RO
zoning district requirements, including
bonuses applicable related to the provision
of the required affordable housing.)


                 (2)     Common Open Space. Planned Developments located in any Residential
District shall comply with the following additional standards:

                        (a)   At least 20% of the subject property shall be maintained as
common open space, except as may be modified by the Plan Commission and City Council in
accordance with this Article.

(The applicant has submitted an illustration documenting compliance with this requirement at final
development. The applicant should provide information related to the amount of common open
space during each phase of the development.)




                                                                                                          15
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION




Sec. 150.525 Preliminary Development Plan Filing Requirements.

        (A)      Application. An applicant for a Planned Development shall file an application
therefore on a form provided by the City, which application shall include, without limitation, the
following:

                (1)     Plat of Survey. A plat of survey, prepared by a registered land surveyor,
depicting, without limitation, all existing improvements and easements on the subject property.
(Document submitted and attached.)

                 (2)     General Location Map. An illustration of the land uses of the
surrounding neighborhood within a 500-foot radius around the subject property, with particular
identification of all nearby streets and the lot lines, structures, setbacks, and driveways of all
adjacent lots. (Document submitted.)

               (3)    Inventory Map. A map or series of maps illustrating the existing site
conditions (Document submitted.)

               (4)     Surrounding Conditions Report. A written description of the land uses
and existing zoning of all properties abutting, and within the general vicinity of, the subject
property. (Document submitted.)

                (5)    Inventory of Facilities and Public Transportation Opportunities. An
inventory of all public schools, public parks, playlots and other public recreation facilities,




                                                                                                     16
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

private- and City-owned parking lots, and public transportation routes located within one quarter-
mile of the subject property. (Document submitted.)

                (6)      Statements of Ownership and Proposed Use.

                          (a)      Documentation verifying that the applicant has or will have, on
or prior to the effective date of the ordinance approving the Planned Development, ownership or
control over all land included within the proposed Planned Development; and

                         (b)     A statement of the applicant's intent regarding the future sale or
lease of any portion of the land, or of the structures located or to be constructed thereon, and the
proposed use of the subject property. (Document submitted.)

                 (7)     Statement of Objectives. A statement of the planning objectives to be
achieved by the particular design approach proposed by the applicant, including (i) a description
of the character of the proposed Planned Development and the rationale behind the assumptions
and choices made by the applicant, and (ii) the extent to which the proposed Planned
Development preserves natural and cultural resources, utilizes residential clustering, and is a
creative and sustainable approach to land development. (Document submitted.)

                (8)     Subdivision Sketch Plan. A sketch plan, demonstrating the maximum
number of lots and/or dwelling units that could be achieved through a conventional subdivision of
the site, (Document submitted.)

                (9)      Site Plan. A site plan, based in part upon the inventory and general
location maps, that:

                          (a)      Indicates the preservation of the historic structures, landscapes,
Environmentally Sensitive Areas and scenic viewsheds located on the subject property through
clustering of lots, adaptive reuse of existing structures, and the use of designated open space; and

                        (b)     Illustrates all proposed lot lines, structures, building pads, street
configurations, and other elements required pursuant to this Article.

(Document submitted and attached.)


                  (10)    Statement of Modifications from Zoning District Standards. A statement
setting forth the specific modifications requested from the requirements of the underlying Zoning
District. (Document submitted. The applicant is seeking a modification from the RO zoning
district standards for front and side yard setbacks, lot coverage, and building height. In
addition, the developer is seeking relief from the requirement to bury all overhead utility
lines in rights-of-way adjacent to the property as this requirement applies to the utility lines
located in the alley behind the development.)

                (11)      Statement of Public Benefits. A statement of the specific proposed public
benefit or benefits, as defined in Section 150.515 of this Article, to be provided by, or associated
with, the proposed Planned Development.

(The applicant has offered to provide striping/ marking for a bicycle lane along Laurel Avenue
between Mc Govern and Hickory Street as a public benefit. In addition, the applicant has stated




                                                                                                        17
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

that the building will have a green roof and will incorporate several other sustainable and energy
efficient features. Demonstration of environmental sustainable building elements can be used to
partially satisfy the public benefit requirements.)

               (12)    Quantitative Summary. A quantitative summary, categorized according
to proposed phases (Document submitted.)

                (13)   Preliminary Plat of Subdivision. If applicable, a preliminary plat of
subdivision that meets the requirements of this Chapter and of the Subdivision Ordinance.
(Document submitted.)

                (14)    Preliminary Engineering Plans. A plan or plans illustrating (a) all
existing and proposed public and private utilities (including but not limited to electrical, gas,
water, sewer, storm, cable and communications utilities), (b) drainage facilities, (c) stormwater
detention and flood plain compensatory storage facilities, to the extent required by the Code, and
(d) a grading plan, showing the topography of the subject property before and after all proposed
construction. (Document submitted.)

                 (15)  Landscape Plan. A landscape plan consistent with the requirements set
forth in Article XXII of this Chapter. (Document submitted. To be reviewed by the Design
Review Commission.)

               (16)   Elevations. Elevation drawings of all proposed structures. (Document
submitted. To be reviewed by the Design Review Commission.)


Laurel Avenue and West Elevations




                                                                                                     18
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

East and Alley Elevations




                (17)     Tree Preservation Plan. A tree preservation plan consistent with the
requirements set forth in Chapter 94 of the Code. (No trees are proposed to be preserved.)

                 (18)   Cross Sections. A minimum of two cross sections through the entire site,
illustrating the bulk and heights of proposed structures in relation to the topography and
vegetation of the subject property, and in relation to surrounding structures. (Document
submitted.)

(19)    Phasing Plan. A document describing the proposed phasing of the development, if any,
for all structures, improvements, and areas and facilities to be held in common ownership,
including the estimated commencement and completion dates of construction of each phase. If
the applicant proposes a phased development, a pro rata portion of the common open space
required pursuant to this Article shall be completed within each phase of development.
(Document submitted).

(20)     Circulation Plan. A plan illustrating the proposed circulation of all vehicles, including
emergency vehicles, within the subject property, which plan must (a) be consistent with approved
engineering and design standards, (b) meet the City's minimum design standards, as may be
modified by the Director of Public Works, (c) illustrate the relationship of the development's
internal streets and driveways to the street system in the general area of the subject property, and
(d) illustrate all vehicle stacking and turning templates, as may be required by the Director in his
or her sole discretion. (Not applicable)

(21)     Traffic Study. A complete traffic impact study or a trip generation analysis, prepared by
a qualified traffic expert, if required by the Director of Community Development or the Director
of Public Works. (Document submitted.)




                                                                                                       19
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

Subdivision Standards

The following section reviews the compliance of the proposed Plat of Subdivision with City Code Section
151.004 Minimum Design Standards of Subdivisions.

(A)     Lots.

(1) Lot shapes. Every lot shall have four sides. (Proposed development meets this standard)

(2) Lot depths. The minimum depth of lots shall be 125 feet. (Proposed development meets this
standard)

(3) Conformance with Zoning Ordinance.

(a)     Minimum lot area and average lot width. Minimum lot area and average lot width shall
correspond to the zoning regulations of the district within which the land being subdivided is located and
the minimum design standards set forth herein.
(Proposed subdivision meets this standard.)

(b)     Existing structures. A subdivision shall not be approved when said subdivision places an existing
permanent structure in violation of the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance or the minimum design
standards of this Chapter. (Proposed subdivision meets this standard)

(c)     Planned Unit Developments. In conjunction with the review required under Section 150.506 of
this Code, no subdivision into two or more parts of a tract of land that is three or more acres shall be
approved, except in compliance with this Chapter and with the planned unit development review and
approval process required by Article V, Chapter 150 of this Code, including, without limitation, the
requirement under Subsection 150.503(B) of this Code that any residential development on, or
subdivision of, a tract of land of three or more acres must be developed under the planned unit
development regulations. (Project is being developed as a Planned Development)

(4)    Required area of tableland. Each proposed lot shall contain at least 20 percent tableland.
(Proposed subdivision meets this standard)

(5)     Relationship to streets. Each lot shall have principal frontage on a public street. Through lots are
prohibited. (Proposed subdivision meets this standard)

(6)     Established Property Width Average. In a single-or two-family residential zoning district, if sixty
percent (60%) or more of the properties fronting on one side of a block located in the same zoning district
have widths greater than the minimum lot width required in that zoning district, then the average property
width of the existing properties shall be deemed to be the established property for such block (Not
applicable)

(B)     Streets and Alleys and Pedestrian Ways. The plat of the proposed subdivision shall provide for
dedication of the necessary land for public streets and alleys proposed by the plat or projected by the
Master Plan. (Not applicable).

(2)     Street relationships, connections, and dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs). (Not applicable)




                                                                                                           20
                 REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

(3)    Pedestrian access ways may be required in locations identified in the Master Plan. (Proposed
development meets this standard)

(C)       Other Public Use Areas and Public Use Facilities. In accord with the Master Plan, the plat of the
proposed subdivision shall provide for dedications of rights-of-way or easements of the land necessary for
bicycle paths and other greenways, such storm or flood water run-off channels and basins, ways for public
facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds and other public grounds as may be required by the Plan
Commission to conform to the principles set forth in the Master Plan. In addition, any public grounds
designated on the Master Plan which lie within a proposed subdivision shall be dedicated for the use
intended in the Master Plan. (Not applicable)

(D)     Utility and Drainage Easements. The plat of the proposed subdivision shall provide for
dedications of easements of sufficient widths to provide subdivided lots with utility services; however in
no event shall such an easement be less than 20 feet in width. Where practicable such easements shall be
located at the rear of each lot and along such other lot lines so as to provide continuity of alignment of
such easements from block to block. In addition, the plat of the proposed subdivision shall provide for
dedications of easements necessary for storm or flood water run-off channels and basins. (The Plat has
been evaluated by the City Engineer  see comments in this report.).

Bonded Improvements
Bonded improvements for the proposed project are referenced in the Engineering Division comments
section of this report.

Utility Line Burial Requirements
Except as otherwise provided, all utility distribution lines for telephone, gas, electric,
telecommunications, internet, or cable television services (collectively referred to in this Section as
"Utility Lines") to be newly installed, or to be reinstalled from existing overhead facilities, shall be placed
underground within easements or dedicated public rights-of-way. Specifically, and without limitation of
the foregoing, all overhead Utility Lines located on property that is the subject of an application for
subdivision approval pursuant to this Subdivision Code, or on a public right-of-way adjacent to such
property, shall, as a condition of such subdivision approval, be placed underground within a dedicated
easement or a public right-of-way.

(The applicant is seeking relief from this requirement so that they do not have to bury the existing
overhead utility lines in the alley behind the subject property.)


Identified Planned Development Relief: The Planned Development regulations allow for the approval
of developments wherein the underlying zoning requirements for the subject zoning district may be
modified. The only prohibited modifications relate to the following and the applicant is not seeking any
such modifications:

    -   Modifications to the permitted uses in the zoning district;
    -   Modifications that result in the increase of density; and
    -   Modifications that would permit future development in a land banked area within any part of the
        approved common open space.

At the present time, staff has identified the following modifications from the underlying zoning standards
of the RO zoning district requirements:




                                                                                                            21
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

    -   To allow encroachment of the front and side setbacks;
    -   To reduce required side yard setback for building height in excess of 15 feet
    -   To allow buildings taller than 45 feet
    -   To allow lot coverage greater than 33.3%;
    -   To reduce the parking stall and drive aisle module length from the required 61'-6"

Inclusionary Housing Requirements: Section 150.2101 requires the provision of permanently
constructed affordable housing units on-site for developments of 5 or more residential units. While
Article 21 of the Zoning Code does provide alternatives to the production of on-site units, it is the intent
and preference of the policy to encourage privately produced, owned, and managed affordable housing
units. Article 21 requires that a total of 20% of the total number of residential units are affordable. The
applicant is proposing 22 market rate and 4 affordable units per phase, or 44 market rate and 8 affordable
units in total. The proposal meets the inclusionary housing requirements of Article XXI for the number of
units provided. Pursuant to City process, the applicant will be directed to meet with City professional staff
and submit an inclusionary housing plan to the Housing Commission for its consideration and
recommendation to the City Council in conjunction with the processing of the proposed Planned
Development.

Master Plan Recommendations: Per the Master Plan that was adopted by the City in 2001, the subject
site is located within the Central Planning District. As previously noted the zoning of the subject site in
the RM1A district was an action taken to implement the concept of transitional residential land use of the
subject block. The Central District Plan did not recommend expanding the RO Residential Office zoning
district beyond the locations where it is currently applied.

Engineering Division Preliminary Review Comments:

The Engineering Division reviewed the submitted plans and offered the following comments:

-   The project engineer must submit a calculation of the existing and proposed impervious areas for this
    development to determine the necessity of stormwater detention facilities on-site. (Submitted and
    under review with the Engineering Division)

-   The proposed development is tributary to the Central Avenue sanitary sewer. The engineer must
    submit a calculation of the existing capacity of the Central Avenue sanitary sewer, between Elmwood
    Drive and Beverly Place, in order to determine if it has sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
    development plus the existing sanitary sewage volume. (Not yet submitted)

-   The proposed plan includes a parallel parking bay on Laurel Avenue. On-street parking is prohibited
    between 819 Laurel Avenue and Hickory Street. The proposed parking bay will eliminate the existing
    parkway, including existing lawn and trees, and is not deemed necessary by the Department of Public
    Works. The proposed parking bay will interfere with snow removal.

-   The two existing utility poles in the alley north of the development and the existing pole near Hickory
    Street, that was not required to be removed during the construction of Laurel Court I, should be
    reviewed relative to the requirement for burial of utility lines as part of the subdivision process.
    (Variation from Subdivision requirements requested)




                                                                                                          22
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

Police and Fire Department Reviews

The Police department reviewed the submitted plans and reported no specific concerns. They stated that
the parking provided for residents and guest should be sufficient as there should be no expectation from
the developer or future residents that the parking restrictions on Laurel Avenue would be changed to
accommodate guest parking during the day. In addition, it was noted that the Plan Commission should be
cognizant of the need for adequate lighting at night at the alley and the entrance/exit ramp to the parking
garage with mirrors if needed to reduce crash potential.

Input from Other Commissions

Design Review Commission Report
Pursuant to Section 150.530(F) of Article V of the Zoning Code (Planned Developments), the applicant is
required to submit the Development Plan and Landscape Plans to the Design Review Commission for
comments. The Design Review Commission is required to transmit to the Plan Commission and City
Council its comments regarding "the extent to which all exterior design features of the proposed Planned
Development satisfy the design review standards set forth in Chapter 176 of the City Code (Design
Review).

        (A) Site Plan.
                (1) The site shall be planned to (a) provide a desirable transition from the
                streetscape, (b) meet the parking design requirements of Article VIII of Chapter 150 of
                this Code, and (c) meet the landscape planting and screening requirements of Article
                XXII of Chapter 150 of this Code.
                (2) Buildings shall be oriented so that the principal entry is visible and accessible
                from the primary street frontage.

        (B) Site Treatment.
                 (1) Where natural or existing topographic patterns contribute to beauty and utility of a
                 development, they shall be preserved and enhanced;
                 (2) Grades of walks, parking spaces, terraces, and other paved areas shall provide a safe
                 and stable surface for walking.

        (C) Building Design.
                (1) Building mass, scale, and lines, including roof forms, shall be designed to be
                harmonious with the design of adjacent buildings.
                (2) Buildings shall be designed to avoid monotony with respect to roof line, windows,
                location and size of principal entry, location and orientation of garage entries, and
                cladding material and color.

        (D) Lighting.
               (1) Lighting fixtures shall be of a scale and finish, and shall be mounted at a height, that
               is appropriate to the building design and lighting function.
               (2) Light sources shall be shielded from view from public rights-of-way and residential
               districts.

The applicant will present plans to the DRC at some future date and the DRC's findings will be
transmitted to the Plan Commission following its consideration.




                                                                                                          23
                REQUEST FOR PLAN COMMISSION ACTION

Housing Commission
Developments of five or more units are subject to the requirements of the Article XXI on the Zoning
Code: Inclusionary Housing. The applicant is proposing to provide a total of 8 affordable housing units,
four in each building. All of the affordable units are proposed to be one-bedroom units. The Housing
Commission will consider the applicant's inclusionary housing plan at its December meeting and will
forward its findings to the Plan Commission following that consideration.


DOCUMENTS ATTACHED

    -   Applicant Narrative Submittal (11-16-12)
    -   Laurel Court II Plans including Engineering and Subdivision Plat
    -   Traffic Study
    -   City Engineer's Review Comments


RECOMMENDATION:
The Department of Community Development recommends that the Plan Commission open the public
hearing, accept public testimony and discuss and deliberate on the proposed Laurel Court II development
plan to construct 52 multiple-family dwelling units in two phases on the properties located at 807-833
Laurel Avenue including a :
    - Zoning Map Amendment from RM1A Medium-to-High Density Multiple Family Residential
         District to RO High Density Residential/Office District
    - Special Use in the Nature of a Planned Development; and,
    - One-lot (Major or Minor) Subdivision




                                                                                                           24
                                   LAUREL COURT II
                                            HIGHLAND PARK
10/8/2013


LOCATION
833,825,819 & 807 LAUREL AV, HIGHLAND PARK

APPLICANT
Fulton Developers, Inc

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP
The properties are owned by the applicant, Fulton Developers.

 ZONING                                  ZONING         PROPOSED         PROPOSED

                                          4 LOTS            PHASE I         PHASE II
                                                            2 LOTS          2 LOTS
                                                        833&825 LAUREL    819&807LAUREL


 ZONING
 DISTRICT:                                  RO                  RO            RO
 TOTAL SITE
 AREA:                                     38,000           19,000           19,000

 LOT COVERAGE:                             33.30%           51.70%           51.70%

 MINIMUM LOT AREA PER UNIT:                 871                 871           871
 DWELLING
 UNITS:                                44MR+8AF         22MR+4AF=26      22MR+4AF=26
 SETBACKS:       FRONT YARD                 25'               10'              10'
                 SIDE YARD                  10'               10'              10'
                 REAR YARD             15' (ALLEY)            48'              48'
 MAX HEIGHT:                            45' - 4ST        42'-11" 4ST      45'-11" 4ST
 OPEN SPACE:                               20%          20.7%+ROOF       23.6%+ROOF
 OFF STREET PARKING ( See table next page )




                                                    1
STATEMENT OF ZONING AND LAND USE ON ALL ABUTTING PROPERTIES


            Zoning and Land Use on Abutting Properties

  Direction               Land Use                           Zoning

    North         Commercial/Retail/Office           B4 Commercial Service

                                                 RM1A Medium to High Density
     West          Multifamily Residential
                                                   Multiple Family Residential
                                                  RM1 Medium to High Density
    South          Multifamily Residential
                                                   Multiple Family Residential

     East         Commercial/Retail/Office           B4 Commercial Service




OVERVIEW

The property is located within Highland Park's Downtown District along Laurel Avenue, just over a
block west of Green Bay Road. The current zoning district is RM1A, which allows for multifamily
residential. The site is bound by a public alley running along the north side of the property with a
combination of retail, commercial and office uses under the B4 Commercial Zoning. On the south side
along Laurel Avenue, there are multifamily residential units currently under construction. The Laurel
Court Row Homes, which were developed by the applicant Fulton Developers, can be found adjacent to
the property on the west side.

The property consists of 4 lots with residences with no architectural value which not only create a sharp
contrast with the surrounding developed downtown but also diminish the value of the surrounding
properties. Two of the homes have recently been demolished..

Laurel Avenue is considered one of the "character streets" for the Central District and also serves as one
of the City's main arteries to access downtown. Therefore, any improvement on this street would benefit
the whole community in addition to the immediate neighbors.

The proposed development consists of two multiple family residential buildings each consisting of 22
market rate units and 4 affordable units. The project will have an underground parking garage, a green
roof and an open plaza at the rear, all part of the common areas.

Since the start of the recession in 2008, the Real Estate market has experienced a few drastic changes.
Leaving aside the evident decrease in home prices and sales, the size of newly built homes has fallen for
the first time in decades. In addition to the recession, there are several factors that have contributed to
this new tendency such as increase in energy costs, concerns about affordability, tight credit for big
mortgages and aging baby boomers, all of which have not been an exception in Highland Park. We feel
that a new multifamily residential development needs to address the market's demand for smaller and
more efficient units which cannot be achieved in a successful way through the existing RM1A zoning.



                                                     2
Laurel Court, which was developed under the RM1A zoning has 15 town homes that range mostly
between 3,000 and 4,000 square feet. Although we are proud to acknowledge that this project has been a
success, we are certain that we would not achieve a positive outcome by developing a similar project in
the neighboring property because we would not be meeting the market's demand for smaller units. In
addition, due the nature of this type of development with underground parking, and ample common
areas, it would not be feasible to simply reduce the size of the units and still have a successful project.
Needless to say, if we reduce the size of the units, the quantity of units would have to increase otherwise
the revenue from the sale of those units would merely pay for the construction of the proposed common
areas and underground parking.

We therefore believe that the RM1A needs to be amended to address the market's demand for smaller
units and at the same time comply with the main goals contemplated by the Central District Plan.

The Proposed amendment will have minimal impact, since neither the bulk, number of bedrooms or
traffic will be increased when comparing with what we can build under the current RM1A zoning
district. The main modifications take place in the interior of the building to better respond to the markets
demands for smaller units.


MODIFICATIONS FROM ZONING DISTRCT STANDARDS

       1- MODIFY THE RM1A ZONING TO RO


REASONS FOR AMENDMENT:

   A- The amendment is consistent with the recommendations provided by The Lakota Group for the
      downtown district.

   B- The property is within the boundaries of Downtown Highland Park and as stated in the 2001
      Central District Plan and reinstated in the Vision Statement prepared in 2011, which is part of the
      Central District Master Plan update, we should "encourage high density multiple family
      development within the downtown...is one of the means of responding to market demands for
      such housing and reserving land in the surrounding neighborhoods for other land uses".

   C- The entire RM1A district consists of our property and 4 more adjacent parcels which make the
      change relatively simple.

   D- Market's demand for smaller units within the downtown.

   E- There is excellent transportation accessibility within the downtown Highland Park and we should
      therefore encourage more residents to use it within the area.




                                                     3
   F- By promoting population growth within the downtown it will benefit the downtown businesses
      as well as the future residents who will have all of the services the downtown has to offer within
      walking distance.

   G- There used to be smaller condominiums and apartments built in the past such as those along
      Central Av above the retail area and in the Ravinia along Roger Williams, which are less than
      half the size of the ones that what we are proposing.

As seen in the drawing below,

THE PROPOSED FOOTPRINT AND BUILDING BOX REMAIN SIMILAR AS TO WHAT IS
ALLOWED UNDER THE RM1A. THE AMOUNT OF BEDROOMS WILL BE ABOUT THE SAME.




     23 UNITS WITH AN AVERAGE OF                           52 UNITS WITH AN AVERAGE OF
                3,200 SF                                              1,300 SF
    TOTAL OF 72 BEDROOMS OR MORE                               TOTAL OF 72 BEDROOMS


                                                   4
       2- BUILDING HEIGHT:

The building to the west at a height of 42' 11 " complies with the 45 feet maximum height of the RO
zoning. The building to the east at 45'11 " would require minimal relief.

REASONS FOR RELIEF:


   1. We are measuring height based on the height definition of the entire lot. However, due to the
      relative large difference in grade between the east and west side of the lot, if we were to consider
      that each building has its own property, they would both comply with the 45 feet height
      limitation and no relief would be necessary.

   2. The 4th floor is stepped back along Laurel Avenue, thus creating the appearance of a shorter
      building.

   3. The existing topography of the RM1A should be taken into consideration with the surrounding
      context. There is a 40 foot drop between Green Bay Road and the subject property which
      provides an opportunity to increase the height without affecting the character of the Downtown.

   4. The height restriction not only limits the interior ceiling height but also the design options. We
      would be able to comply with the height restriction by simply providing 8 foot ceilings. This
      would provide however, a non-desirable and less marketable project and also limit the design
      options.

   5. In addition, over 50% of the building is setback an additional 4'-6" beyond the 10 foot front
      setback, visually minimizing the bulk of the building.


       3- FRONT SETBACK
          Laurel Court directly to the west has a 10ft front setback and therefore the proposed 10ft
          front setback is consistent with the neighboring property.

       4- MAXIMIM LOT COVERAGE

We have noticed that all of the multiple family projects approved in Highland Park within the downtown
area exceed the lot coverage requirement of 33,3%. This restriction, might be reasonable for properties
that are further away from the downtown district, however based on the approved projects by the
Planning Commission and the City Council most of the projects within the downtown district have a lot
coverage closer to 50%. We are proposing a 51.7% lot coverage which is consistent with projects within
the downtown.

In no particular order the following is the lot coverage of some similar projects:

847 Laurel Av - Laurel Court: 50.4%



                                                     5
2021 St Johns  Le Maisons: 47,8%
2000 Green Bay Road:        44,3%
650 Laurel Av:              53,4%

         5- MAINTAIN ELECTRIC POWER LINES ALONG ALLEY

We request relief from removing the 3 electrical power lines along the alley.
  1. This is an alley and the power lines are not visible from the street.
  2. The power lines along the 3 poles adjacent to our property, serve mainly the commercial
      buildings along Central Avenue. There are overhead transformers on each one of the poles
      serving those properties and therefore in order to remove the poles, we would have to do
      underground work on other properties and find a location on the ground to relocate those
      transformers. It wouldn't be possible to relocate the transformers on this other properties and we
      should not lose ground area or parking spaces to relocate other properties transformers on our
      property.
  3. In order to remove the 3 electrical poles along the alley a new pole would have to be installed at
      the east corner of the property.
  4. When building Laurel Court, it wasn't possible to remove one of the electrical poles along the
      alley because it was also serving a commercial property along Central Av (the post office and the
      bank). There are therefore 2 poles in front of Laurel Court that could not be removed.


         6- PARKING

We have been able to prepare an underground parking plan as seen on Sheet A4-A, that complies with
on-site parking requirements.
However, in order to provide parking spaces that are a little bit wider than code, we are proposing to
build the underground parking plan on sheet A4-B which has 3 parking spaces less on each building.
We are therefore proposing a total of 92 parking spaces.

REASONS FOR RELIEF:

   1- To be able to provide wider than code parking spaces.
   2- Based on the parking study prepared by Gewalt Hamilton and Associates, the project is within
      1,000 feet of public transportation. It would therefore be eligible for the Alternative Parking
      Reduction discount of 15% which would suggest that only 83 spaces would be required. We are
      proposing 92 parking spaces.

 OFF STREET
 PARKING:


 UNIT#        SF/UNIT   UNITS   BDRM.     PARK.        GUEST       TOTAL
                                           REQ.        PARKING   PARKING REQ
 FIRST FLOOR
 101           1329       1       1         1.5          0.25       1.75
 102           1602       1       2         2            0.25       2.25
 103           1118       1       1         1.5          0.25       1.75




                                                   6
104 (AFF)     847       1          1         1.5        0              1.5
105           1010      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
106           1328      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
                        6          7         9.5       1.25        10.75
SECOND FLOOR
201           1620      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
202           1362      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
203           1118      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
204 (AFF)     847       1          1         1.5        0              1.5
205           1011      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
206           1230      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
207           1559      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
                        7         10         12        1.5         13.5
THIRD FLOOR
301           1620      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
302           1362      1          2          2        0.25        1.75
303           1118      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
304 (AFF)     847       1          1         1.5        0              1.5
305           1011      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
306           1230      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
307           1559      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
                        7         10         12        1.5         13.5
FOURTH FLOOR
402           1602      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
403           1118      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
404 (AFF)     847       1          1         1.5        0              1.5
405           1045      1          1         1.5       0.25        1.75
406           2140      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
407           2205      1          2          2        0.25        2.25
                        6          9        10.5       1.25        11.75
TOTAL         33685     26        36         44        5.5         49.5

TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED FOR EACH
BUILDING                                                        49.5    = 49
                                                   SHEET A4-A   SHEET A4-B
                                                   MEET CODE    PROPOSED
TOTAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED ON SITE - PHASE I        49              46



TOTAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED ON SITE - PHASE II       49              46



ADDITIONAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED ON RIGHT OF
WAY                                                     4              4




                                                   7
PUBLIC BENEFIT

Based on the City's plans to provide a bicycle lane along Laurel Av, we would make a financial
contribution for the cost of the bicycle lane along Laurel Avenue between Mc. Govern and Hickory
Street.

The building will have a green roof (which would be the first one in Highland Park) along with several
other sustainable and energy efficient features.


CONCLUSION

When comparing what is allowed under the current RM1A zoning district and what we are proposing, it
is clear that there would be no major differences when looking at the project from the exterior. The only
purpose of the proposed modifications is to provide a project that's marketable, since there is currently
no demand for 3,000 to 4,000 square foot units.

The bulk and footprint of the building would be not only about the same size as what is allowed under
the current zoning but since we are also pushing the building back on certain areas it would further
minimize the bulk. We are also proposing 2 buildings instead of one, which will provide the appearance
of a smaller building.

The amount of bedrooms would be about the same or less than the ones we are allowed to do by right.

The proposed project would also have an underground parking, which is one of the goals under the 2001
Central district Plan and 2011 Vision Plan for all new residential developments downtown.

The relief we are seeking is consistent with the Master Plan, the 2001 Central District Plan, the new
2011 Vision Plan and the Lakota Group study for downtown and provides a more viable way of
achieving its goals.

With all due respect, we would kindly ask you to consider the plans submitted and in turn, submit a
favorable recommendation to the City Council.




                                                   8
            2           I                                ..                                             I
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                   m11
                                                                                                                                                   9~111
                I   I                                          7   I           ~
                                                                         --~-  "'
D
                                                ---           LJ               r                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                   ~i.
                                                                   I
                                                                               Ill

                                                                                                                                                   z~;I
                                                                                      I
                                                _PLAZA

                                                 ........          I                  I
                                                                                                                    --                             ~ IJI
                                                                                                                                                     l:ic




                                                   A/C PAD

                            WOOD DECK

c                                                                                                                                              c

    I
    I
                                                 GREEN ROOF                                                      GREEN ROOF




                                                 GREEN ROOF                                                      GREEN ROOF




                                                                                                                                              
        0


                                                                           z               I                ..
                                                                       DROP OFF II SHORT TERM PARKING
                                        LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED                                       LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED
                                                PHASE I                                                        PHASE II



                                                                                                                                                   Iii.-   N fl ..




A




                                                                                                                       CONTEXT PLAN
                                                                                                                              NOTT08CALE



                                                         ..                                                                                           A1
            2           I                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                            L A ND SCAPE                                                      DEV E L 0                            p M E N T                           STU Dy



                                                                     AUREL                                                                                                   OURT                                                                                                                                                             NHOMES
                                                                                             LA UREL                               AV E N               u    E               &          H           CKORY                            R 0          A D                                H I G H LAN D                              p A R K                   L L I N 0                      s



                                                                                                                                                                                                                +---1 WiV1qeJ CVOVl'(l"\V~ '?'!>!>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ---~ 0Ui- MaqV1olia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1---lb 0F Pac.'1'('<>3V1Ji-a 'lt pot"'                                                                            1:>1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <:>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '? fekiVlq C.otoV1e;,.,tei- t'l>l>                                                    110 0F Pvi-p l el eaf WiV1tei-c.i-eepei-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +-----~ J\i-l:>oi-vl tae           t 1 1:>1:>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 fOl"'b'J't"ii; ~ 1>1:>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     00

                                                                      +--------렁.                 --------------~                                ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s     .q-

                                                                                                         +-------- ~ 0e i-vi c.e I:> 9i-q 1 - b'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                  - - - - b f?oxwooJ         ~0J1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    u         OJ} C>      r--
                                                                                                                                               11'? 0F of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C\!   \.0 ("()
                                                                                                                                               Pvi-pl9 WiV1t9i-c.i-9ep9i-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~-Hf---tll!------------                                        fl f\ 9 a I< VI 0 v ko Vt f\o~ 9 ?q 3 I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,..----;,::---;-;,, . . . . - - - - - - - - - - - 11. G i-e "VI Ve Ive t e> ox w o oJ                            ~ o JI I:> I>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .f-::F . - - - t i , . . . - - - - - - - - - - ~ o 0 F P v r p I 9 le; f Wi VI t er c. r e 9 per
                                                                                  .
                                                                                 '()
                                                                         



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,....---r;----------                                 h Gre9VI MoVVlt3iVI f?oxwooJ

                                                      I ____:r--:_ _---:ttfi~~~::fi=B=tlltl~~~.-!J.~-=::zl-- 1t MixeJ t-levc.'1ei-a 1.qat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t - ~0 11

            lt Mixed tio,., ta 1.qat.         -______J_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t - ~""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t - t t"
            1. f\edl:>vd 1-b'l:>I:>                                                                                                                                1. f\edl:>va 1 - b'l:>I:>                                                                                                                                                                               "'---+!---------- '? C.r aVI 1:>9 i-q C.o to VI 93,., t 9 i- '?q aI.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - --r;- - - - - - - - - - '7 f\ed l<Vloc.kovt f\o~e ?q; I.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1'?1. 0F of Cl\teV1"' i ve
                                                    1
            1. C.o "'"' oVI w i t i:-'1'1az.9 t '? 1> I:>   ------::
                                                                   '----------'r.tt-J                                                                                                                                                 Gi-eeV1 f\oof w i t'1 J\l tei-V1at i V1q
                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PaV1el"' of Mi xed 0eavt'i\




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :....__ _,___ _ _ __,,__ __,,_ _ _ '7 f\e J I< VI o c. ko vt                          f\o~e     ?qa I .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       : ' : " " ' 7 - - t - - - - - - - ; r - i : " ' - - - - '? C. r aVI I:> 9 i-q C.o to VI 9 a"' t 9 i- '? q a I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a;;;,.--.:..:,,......+------;,.<'----- h G re 9 VI Mo v VI ta i VI                              e> ox w o oJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t - ~0   11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t - ~""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i- tt"
                                                                                                                                                                                     h J\rl:>orviU9     '?'!:>!:> - - - - - - R9
                                                                         ---------~
                                                                                                                                                                                    ~o     Mi xed Hevc.'1ei-a 1.qal. - - - H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;:::--+.::;i---+,-----+------- 11. G re 9 VI                                          V 9 Ive t   e> ox w o oJ ~ o     JI   I:> I:>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ._,.,.___. ,._____
                                                                                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +-----1~0                        0F Pvrp l ele;f W1Vlt9rvt-98p9r



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                     I 0ervic.el:>ei-ry l - b'l:>I> ----fiiT-..::....ifijJI
                                                                                                                                                                                    1   p~;irle     Dro "'""d 1.q;I.- - - +


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fi':i----ili------f-r-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                           u "r I"'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           --+------:,-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~S---!-------;------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. 0                 M; VI t I 9 I q aI.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                f\9a f?va 1- b' 1:>1:>



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                b f\ 9 J I< VI o c. ko v t f\o"' e         '? q aI.

                                                                                                                                                                                                     ... ----+------ . . .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0



                                                                    t? 0f o f - - - - --+                                t   J\rl:>orvlue t'l>l>                                                                                       1. WiV1qed CVOVl'(l"' V'i> '? 1 1:>1>                  ~o   0F of Pvrp l eteaf W1Vl t9rvt-98p9r
                                                                    Pvrp le WiV1terc.ree p er


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                              ~h 0F of Maid9VI Gr'"'"' - - -                                                                                            b 1<a11ay lvV11p9r '? q a l . - - - - - -             ~ Fi-aqraV1t Vil:>Vt-VIVI"' ~hJll:>l>------+
                                                                    t fraqraV1t------+                        1 WiV1 qed CVOVl'(l'\V'<> '?' 1:>1:>----
                                                                    Vil>VrVIVt'i\ ~h 11 1:>1:>




                                                                              Proposed Plantings
                                                                                                         Scientific Name                                 Common Name                      Size           Unit           Qty.
                                                                                        Amelanchier grandiflora                               Apple Serviceberry                          7-8'            Ht.            5                                           Cotoneaster acutifolius                              Peking Cotoneaster             3'     Ht.                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : (f)
                                                                                        Cercis canadensis                                     Eastern Redbud                              7-8'            Ht.            6                                           Cotoneaster apicu latus                              Cranberry Coton easter         5      Gal.                10                                                                                                                       :o
                                                                                        Hamamelis v irginiana                                 Common Witchhazel                            5'             Ht.            4                                           Euonymus alatus                                      Winged Euonymus                5'     Ht.                  4
                                                                                        Magnolia stellata                                     Star Magnolia                                    S'         Ht.            3                                           Forsythia x intermedia                               Border Forsythia               3'     Ht.                  9
                                                                                        Thuja occidentalis 'Nigra'                            American Arborvitae                              4'         Ht.            11                                          Forsythia x intermedia                               Border Forsythia               4'     Ht.                  6
                                                                                        Thuja occidentalis 'Nigra'                            American Arborvitae                              5'         Ht.            12                                          Rosa 'Radrazz'                                       Red Knockout Rose               5     Gal.                26
                                                                                        Buxus x 'Green Mountain'                              Green Mountain Boxwood                        24"          Ht.              4                                          Viburnum carlessii                                   Koreanspice Viburnum           36"    Ht.                 7
                                                                                        Buxus x 'Green Mountain'                              Green Mountain Boxwood                        30"          Ht.              4                                          Euonymus fortune i 'Coloratus'                       Purple leaf Wintercreeper             SF                 520
                                                                                        Buxus x 'Green Mountain'                              Green Mountain Boxwood                        36"          Ht.              4                                          Pachysandra term inalis                              Japanese Pachysandra                  SF                  18
                                                                                        Buxus x 'Green Velvet'                                Green Velvet Boxwood                          30"          Ht.             32                                          Alchemilla mollis                                    Lady's Mantle                   1     Gal.                40
                                                                                        Juniperus chinenis 'Pftize riana Kallay Compact'      Kallay Compact Juniper                           5         Gal.            42                                          Heuchera sp.                                         Cora l Bell s                   2     Gal.                88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hosta sp.                                            Hos ta                          2     Gal.                28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Miscanthus sinensis                                  Maiden Grass                           SF                 36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sporobolus heterolepsis                              Pra irie Dropseed               2     Gal.                36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mixed Sedum (Green Roof Plantings)                   Extensive Plant Matrix                SF                 752
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO R T l l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLAN NO.
r   0   c       c          0                   f                0        r   e           &                s          0       n      s                         n          c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           05-11 2
t:U0!..,1
t:D:l  w1
\::DO
t:ow ..,!
     .....   FULTON DEVELOPERS
              DESIGN   +   BUI LD
                                    LAUREL COURT II
                                       HIGHLAND PARK
        2                                      I                                          ..                              I
                                                                                                                                                         
                           -- --
                         Pl.RICMJB
                           ._,. ._,.                                             -----------           I   ---------~----,
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                 m11
                                                                                                                                                                 9~111
                                                                                                       I                                I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                    ~                                  I                                I


                                                                                                      -1--------- -------------1 ----~
                            4       I      I       1   I                                               I
                                                                                                       I
                                                                    "
                                                                                                                                                                 ~i.
D
                         ---- ----                           ---~j!---
                                                                 CO>;r:::                                                                                    D
                        RAISED PWllERS
                                                                    l)"'[J
                                                                                                                  EXIST. GARAGE
                                                                                                                                                                 z~;I
                                                                    (")

                                                                    Ill
                                                       I                                                                                                         ~ IJI
                                                                    CJ)



                          PLAZA                        IL



                                                       I                                                                                                           l:ic
                        RAISED PWllERS
                                                                                      EXIST. GARAGE




                                                                                                           D                                                      =~1
                                                                                                                                                                  ~1 .
                                                                                                                                                                  1l
c

                                A/C PAD
                                                                                                                                                             c
                                                                                                                                                                  ~II




                                                                                EXIST. BUILDING                EXIST. BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                             
                           GREEN ROOF




                           GREEN ROOF


                                                                                                                                                                 11
    ,---T-
           I
            I
            I
                                                              ,---n~--.--------
                                                                             1
                                                                                                      -,-------------
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                      I -----
                                                                                                                      - ------,------
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                  J
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                        I


                                                                                                                                        I                0       ~I
                                                                                                                                                                 SL.   NII ...

                                                                                                                                                                 IR\WlllM

                                                                                                                                                                 QECICEDIM
A                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                2                 a
                                                                                                                                                                    Do\12::
                                                                                                                                                                   IMI

                                          DROP OFF &: SHORT TERM PARKING                                                              SITE PLAN - PHASE I
                                                                                                                                            NOTT08CALE
                LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED
                        PHASE I                                                                                                                                    A2.
        2                                      I                                          ..                              I
                                                                                                                                                         
        2                                           I                                                        ..                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                           -- -e--
                         PIBJCAllEY
                          -e                                                                                                                      -e
                                                                        T-2"                  -e                                                         -e
                                                                                                                                                                                                    m11
                                                                                                                                                                                                    9~111
                        GUEST PARKI G                                               : ITR.1
                                                                        ~
                            4         I   e             7   e           ;:o
                                                                        "
                                                                                                         2                                e           7     e     
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~i.
D
                        ---- ----                                ---~~---                            ---- --                                                                                    D
                        RAISED PLANIERS
                                                                    >"D
                                                                    C')   I

                                                                                                                                                                                                    z~;I
                                                                        C')
                                                                        1"11



                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~ IJI
                                                                        en

                         PLAZA                              I
                                                                        en

                                                                                   !
                                                                                   II
                                                                                     !                                                PLAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      l:ic
                        RAISED PINl1ERS                                                                                             RAISED PINl1ERS




                                                                                                     I
                                                                                   !0 I                                                                                                              =~1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~1 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1l
c
                                A/C PAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~II



                         r<-'11'-'I                                                                                                    r<-'11'-'I
                        l<~-U.-~>I                                                                                                    l<~-U.-~>I                                               
                          GREEN ROOF                                                                                             GREEN ROOF

                                          .... -.
                                          "'~   "                                                                     .... -..
                                                                                                                      "'~   "
                                          r;~                                                                         ~;~



                          GREEN ROOF                                                                                             GREEN ROOF

                                                                                                                                                                                                    11
    ,---T-
           I
            I
            I
                                                                                                     10 FRONT SElllACK-------




                                                                                                                                                                                       0            ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    SL.   NII ...

                                                                                                                                                                                                    IR\WlllM

                                                                                                                                                                                                    QECICEDIM
A                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                    2                         3                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Do\12::
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IMI

                                                                DROP OFF       &   SHORT TERM PARKING                                                                 SITE PLAN- PHASE II
                LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED                                                                     LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED                                     NOTT08CALE
                        PHASE I                                                                                      PHASE II
                                                                                                             ..                                                                                       A3
        2                                           I                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                       2                                                                                 I                                                                                               ..                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                         /'~,
                                                                                                                                                                                  (/)
                                                                                                                                                                                  w
                                                                                                  PHASE I                                                                         u
                                                                                                                                                                                  u                                                                                             PHASE II
                                               MllUlll
                                                                                                                                                                          a..<
                                                                                                                                                                          :::!:   (.!)
                                                                                                                                                                          ~~
D
    ~---V::;:,==tt- r;::,..g-,,_~:::_.::1:_::::l,,._~+=_,:_,,::-:_=,,'--! =-e_=
                                   =:J-                                       ._s=._~H--. _-s--~:.~~~           ::;:+                                                           ~             1                     .I                                                             ,. ,. . . .     .I
           :
      _j STORAGE

                              -
                                          12               13
                                                                   ,I


                                                                   ;l.
                                                                   "j      14                15
                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                           i'HI
                                                                                                           _
                                                                                                                          17            18     18
                                                                                                                                                                                  ~\
                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                  fT
                                                                                                                                                                                  r----

                                                                                                                                                                                  bdi'
                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                      "-il'-6"-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~-a- "-il'-6"- "-il'-6"- "-il'-6"-,.._ ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      'ttf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _                _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STORAGE




          ~  11
          l ll~I
                                                                           I                                                   I               20                                                I                                I                                  I                                                           I                                               111 ~I
          ip
           I
          ,I         ~- - - - - J
                                                                           I

                                                                                                'b
                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                        -----
                                                                                                                                                         -----17-2"--
                                                                                                                                                                                                         12                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ____                        _J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L _____ __j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I     T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,I
          j        10                                                      f-- -             ___J - -                - --"                                                                  ,                                     I                                  l-- - -                       - ;;;___ - -----"                                                             110   J
          T
          ~
                     1

                     I
                                                                           I
                                                                           i
                                                                                                  r                            I                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                                                            r llt---~--t'IJ1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                               :1                          I                                               1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
              ,                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                 I                                  1                                                           1                                               1         ,
          ., 1     1111
                                                                           I                                                                        [        1
                                                                                                                                                                 c:::)                                                                                                                                                           I                                               I9    i



          렁       ~          !                 -          ~n- i 1                                          -.                                     1    ~~~- --__,-J                                                                                                                                       1r!i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,. -:....-:....-:!._....,::,,-_ h -                                               !            i ,
c
     t---+--11~-1-1-+---+- - -
                              1                            ~ s-~---a--....---------.톏-~- -                                                                         -1 ~ -                                   I                                                  톞---+--e,~                                  --                ~                     -+---+:-1-~11-1._1--_-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c
          렁       7          I                            -i=r"                                           2       ,                                                        I                  11                                                                              i         2                                             -i=r"                       I            7    i

                              I                            ~                                                                                                                 I                  ::                                                                                                                                       ~                           I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               w---
                                                                                                                                                                                                II


          -.       8 I
                     : I
                              ~                                                      ---
                                                                                                  ~ DOD
                                                                                                    ~                           I
                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                    b                        I

                                                                                                                                                                                     ii         : :                                                                  IDD::::srmD                                                                                     ~ I 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i

                     I :                                                       렁                                              .n                       .r 1
                                                                                                                                                           r.:r1::::1:1           1!~11===::+=====1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                   n                                                      .                                       :I 5
                   6
                                                                                    a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o --
          ~                                                                                                                                             _JI ,-~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nu                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                     1

                          :                                        --                                          00011                                                                                                                                                 11000                                                                                                   :




                   ~: ~-4                                                                       u                                                                        r~                            ~                                                                                                     ~ l -렁,,~I
                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1




           I                                          l                             -1        1                      11         1                                _
                                                                                                                                                                                                1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1_                                                                          I

         MEC~J
                          11 ---
                          : I
                                                4     .I
                                                         ...
                                                                   3

                                                                                     ......,          x
                                                                                                      =


                                                                                                      x= ]              I
                                                                                                                               II




                                                                                                                                               u 1 .~
                                                                                                                                                                 T           I

                                                                                                                  +--+-I---1-ZJ-'''--....---rl_.~r--...,..ip--11tl___,..렁-~---..----2 .~--.......
                                                                                                                                                            1 [rl-렁1r:::;:::~8="""'1111  ii.
                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;:=x                            I :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x           l~......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...   3         .I     4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !!!!!-!!!!!!!!!-!!!!:4-------W~_.-Pl!:IH*I:;;:::::=~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~~JCAL




          ST              I :h                   38'::             40                    41                                                                                                              1                 40        41     ~ 42   kB.1  44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1


                                                                                                                                                                                                         I i.,,,,.,.1=~--4-.......g-4-"111-~ 'f _.
                     I

    "-8'-11                 ~           _.       ~~.......g-4-.....g-4                                           I                       I                   .. 27 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11-                     
                                                                                                                1_L___J_--.-~-4-4~---..1..-t7'~1.,__,it-p-flt--t-t7'-11~..1..--+----2-4'-4.,,____,_J__J---t-r
                     J_ _ _,,_ __ ~----.
                     ;    1


                                                                                                      -        ~-1
                                                                                                                                1

                                                                                                                                                T l. ! ~ ,. T                                           F-" . o---~--__,,_ __u __ _                                                                                                                                          1   1




                     I        i                                                     ~                                           i                                    i     ~              ,,             -. ,.               j                                       i                                                ~                                              i I                                                       I
                     I I                                                            ,                                           i
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                        l---m-~--'--27-+--l~III--+-~ ~---...i                -30                                                    I                                                ~                                             i            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            II..
                                                                                                                                                        ~"~ ~F'b".
                                                                                                                                I
     -            --1I              """'~            -~            ---\11"               -
                                                                                                                               111                     ~                                                                        ~                  ----,-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I ,,                                                - - -iir-                      -~              -11r-     -1--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~~
                  '-ol'---1l~-t-+-11~t-11-렁-7"-'-f-t-11-1'~
                              I
                                                             -t--'li-,~-t--'li~-.r--.,..g~:~-- .-t~~""~                                                                                       I                 ~~ff                                            __,,_-11~                                                                                            ~
                              . -                                           -       -
     "-8'-11                 l.                                                               _-,                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t--:''-1.:t--1"!'''-r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1                     --f--11"''--of'--11"'''"+-f--6"' -7"-'--f----11"''--++-'llJI렁 ---f-i"5''- 11 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i ...
                                                                                                                                    ~                                                           I                                                                                                                                                          l~       ~8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NIO ...

         38                                ~34                  33                  'iD 32            31             30                        28                    I                                                       I           31                               33                   34                   35'iD            38               37                               39                                   ~BY':
                                                                                                                                    I                            BfYCLE ~ '"캲AGE                      BICYCLE   STORAGf                                      I                                                                                                      I
                              I                           Ch -         -~               _ l_,.______.,11 - -f-1-r-O                                                  I                                                       I                  0--, -1-- - ,-r'------'i,-1 -                                           ~ ~ - rl~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QECICED BY':
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                              ,1
                              i.=::t:::::=:::JI
                                              I                                                                                          'L!:I= = = . i i
                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                    II                     1.                                                                                   ,1                         1.

          .....
         DDD                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UND~aR~I JND PARKING MEETING CODE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IM'M:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IMI

                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTTO SCALE

                              41 UNDERGROUND PARKING SPACES                                                                                                                                                           44 UNDERGROUND PARKING SPACES
                                 8 OUTDOOR PARKING SPACES                                                                                                                                                                5 OUTDOOR PARKING SPACES                                                                                                                                                                           A4-A
                                                                       2                                                                                 I                                                                                               ..                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                 2                                                             I                                                              ..                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

                                                              "' PHASE I                                                                                                                     PHASE II
                                        ......
                                 .Q: .Q: ~                                                     11
D   t;::::::::;::::::====;~~~==:::+=;:=::::::;::::=~----                                                 -----
     --v                        H'-~"'-+--!1_,_-8_. _1:~                                                                                                                                               .........
         I
         I                                                             . 18':a:-
                                                                         - "-6'-e"-H'-31"- H'-31"-                                                    .I                                               -  .I
     _j STORHlE                     11               12           13   i    114       15            18    17             -                  13        J14
                                                                                                                                                      ...                15        18         17       rm J 11     ...     20   21       STORAGE

                                                                                                                                                      T
                                                                       l=                                                              H -11
                                                                                                                                                       I-                -         _.   ~-- H'-s"- ~    r-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                        =          r-1   -    --~-

        ? 1~                                              !   I                            I              18             ~         I
        i'
         L--~---
                 JII                                                                       L                       f----47-2'!--
        ,I
        ~
        .I     II                                                      -
                                                                       'b
                                                          i-----1-- - --J- - -    -   ___j
                                                                                                    -----
                                                                                                                             . .11

        1i        II                                                   'I                  I
                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                             ..
                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                   11 ...........- ' - - - - - f ' l l


        ii     ~                                          ii                               I
                                    ---

                   :       I
        1      ,           :
c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c
    P----17'-11'           I

        1      8           I

                           I
              , I !
                 : I
                 I I
                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~~
    f-e'-11                        -
                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i ..   NIO ...
       33              321 I
                                ' 31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~llY':


                           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             QECICEDllY':
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                           렁
     fr ......
          fr fr                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                        IM'M:

                                                                            -                                                      I
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                   I                                                                                                               NOTTO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IMI




                           38 UNDERGROUND PARKING SPACES                                                                                              41 UNDERGROUND PARKING SPACES
                              8 OUTDOOR PARKING SPACES                                                                                                   5 OUTDOOR PARKING SPACES                                                                                        A4-B
                                                 2                                                             I                                                              ..                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                0




                             PUBLIC ALLEY
                                          ---- -------r,---                 NO REAR SETABCK                                         NO REAR
         rl. -- -- --~~- -----------
         j ~~~ ~ :-렁--:-렁-7~-;~~~;~~';-a--s-렁--a-렁                                                         11 2
                                                                                                                      ;          j lrn-1-
                 ~            1   2             3       4       5       6             7             8                  ~         I
                    '.#'A                                                                                              :z:::o    
                     0'A                                                                                                Q~        I
             -                     I         I                           ii            I                                ~IJ      I!;:==~
                                                                                           o)                           ~        II
                                                                                                                                  I
                                                      PLAZA
                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                  I


                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                  I                                        ..

                                                                                                                                 ![
                                                                                                                                 I                 .


.                                                                                                                                                                          ..




                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                  I
..                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                           ..
                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                  I


                                                                                                                                 II

                                                                                                                                               ,....
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                  I        i   I



         I
                                                                                                                                 II
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                               I
         I                                                                                                                        I            I
                                                                                                                                               L-




             ----14'-'--+-+I                                                                                                     II                                        
                                                                                                                                  I


                                                                                                                                 I         -




                                                                                                     ~
                                       ~.I


                                           T         /         00'
                                                                     ~
                                                                     '
                                                                                   1

                                                                                   22'
                                                                                                                    2

                                                                                                                    :2
                                                                                                                                                                           
                                             LAUREL AVENUE
                                       FIRST FLOOR AND SITE PLAN


                                                                                               .o                                                           a

                                                                                                                                           FULTON DEVELOPERS
                                                 FLOOR PLANS                                LAUREL COURT II                                            DESIGN+ BULD
                                                                                           833,825,8181807 LAU&.AV                    BCBlllW..AY.I Ol'l'ICl:IMNllOllll
                                                                                            HIGtl..ANJ PARK, IL 1111131               HIM.MD-        1Wt     -14
                                                                                                                                        -'RllllEVB.CIPBI
     4
                                                                  0




                                                                                                II I I II
                                                                                            [bd D
          -



              -
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                II I II

                                                                                        ~D Bl
                                                                           i
.                                                                              I
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                           ..
                                                                               I
                                                                               I

                                                                   ~r




..                                                                                                                                         ..


                   ~o
          -
                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                              I

                                                                                                                                          




                        \
                    0
                  ~                                                                                                                       
                            CJ   a   D                                             CJ       a    D
                                         SECOND & THIRD FLOOR PLAN

                                                                .o                                                     a



     1
     1
     RI       I 1r =. ~-'*
              ll
                   ll!~a----
                   . 9"-4-       - - -
                                                FLOOR PLANS    LAUREL COURT II
                                                              833,825,8181807 LAU&.AV
                                                               HIGtl.ANJ PARK, IL 1111131
                                                                                                          FULTON DEVELOPERS
                                                                                                      HIM.MD-
                                                                                                                  DESIGN+ BULD
                                                                                                      BCBlllW..AY.I Ol'l'ICl:IMNllOllll
                                                                                                                     1Wt
                                                                                                        -'RllllEVB.CIPBI
                                                                                                                             -14
                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OI
                  ~                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                          11                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -

                  p
                                                                                     -
                                                                                         0                                                                                                                                                         q]
                                                                                 \
                                                                                 I
                                                                                                  ~ D                                                                q                                                                       C)



                                     i                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                         0
                                                                                     -                                                                                                                              .           ,.~
              = ~                                                                                                       rn                              ~~~~
                                                                                                                                                                     Dg
                                                   ==
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EJ
                  g
                  IP          T-
                             lJ --                                        ~                                             I                   I            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11            -      I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                i:!!:::::    ~
                                                                          :...u  -                                                                           -                             >--                          -
                  C)ll                 -
                                                                   -        llQJCU                                                                                    IP
              -
                                                                                                                                                                                   E5                                                              II I I II
                                                                                                ~ ~ 19
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                     ~                                                                                                                         ..
                                                                   ~
                                                                                 C)


              -
                                0                           c:::::::!!i
                                                                            y~

                                                                           .n                EJ      IP   -                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                         r::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          - s~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [d D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I          I


                                                                                                                                                                     EJ                                   C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .-쬵j
                      L]                                                                                                        D                       -                                                 IP
                                                                                                                                                                                                          01 -                                    0
              -                                                             -                             7"""
                                                                                                                                                     o"~                                                                    ~
                                ~                                                p
                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                        -                                                          S_L
                                                                                                                                                                                                     L.J==I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rn
.
                        So~                                                      쬕~
                                                                                   - I                                                                                    r                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'TI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~D                8                              ..
                                 I          I
                                                                            I?
                                                                            II                        :(                                                                                                          -1                   ::I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...---


                                                                   ~o                                                                                                                                                               -
                        LJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1l



                                                                                                                                                    [8]1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              o'" ~,1il
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                    0
                                                                    0                p                I
                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                --
                                                                                                                                                    [8]1
                                                                   -                 I
                                                                                                          -                         -
              -

              D
                                                            =n
                                                                                         11.
                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                          -                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              --           01



..                0 I  CULQ                                                              -                                                                           q
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0        CUlQ_[J                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                  @"I                               B
                                                                                                                                                            ll
                                                                                             II

                                                                                             ~                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                             -
                                                                                             -                                                                                                            ll~1~1~
                                                                       ~                                  c:::J                 -                       c:::J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~u       @"
                                il
                                                                                                  r----, ~---T~d--~ 1---1
                                                                       ~                          I                     I i''x,....l l'v"i I                    I    @)
              -                                                        EJ
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  L----~
                                                                                                                        I 1,." ',11,." ',I I
                                                                                                                            ~---&~---~                  ~---~
                                                                                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                                      --,                            I        EJ                         im:               Den
                                                                                             1.J
                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                              -            -
                                                                                                                                                                                   11         _ _J




                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                x~                  =~                                -                  LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                 L    q] .. -- ,."'I

                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                   I       )(         I

                             --------------                                                   D                         I
                                                                                                                                                                 IL..--
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~--  '~
                                                                                                                                                                                       ---

                                                                                                                                                                -             I     ~--;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                Oo                           0
                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                   I '" I
                                                                                                                                                                                   I,,-"', I
                                                                                                                                                                                   w=, ___ !tiil


                                                                                                                                                                                   ~                                                    ~--------------
                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          D

                                                                       L]                                                       -
                                                                                                                                0




                                     D
                                 II I I II
                                                        8 ~o~                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                        \
                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I I II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

                                                                                                          FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                      .o                                                                           a

          NO.         DA1E      REVlllCIN                                                                                                                                                                                                            FULTON DEVELOPERS
     I
     ll
          :

          a
                      ttlltll   P1.ANCD1-at1                                                     FLOOR PLANS                                                                      LAUREL COURT II
                                                                                                                                                                               833,825,8181807 LAU&.AV
                                                                                                                                                                                HIGtl.ANJ PARK, IL 1111131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESIGN+ BULD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BCBlllW..AY.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HIM.MD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -'RllllEVB.CIPBI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ol'l'ICl:IMNllOllll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1Wt    -14
          4
    2   I                         4    I                           I

                                                                                      .,
                                                                                      ii
D                                                                          D
                                                                               I
                                                                               ~
                                                                               9~11
                                                                               ~i.
                                                                               zR~I
                                                                                           I
                                                                               ~ iii
                                                                                 lz




c




                                           PROPOSED LAUREL AV ELEVATIONS
                                                    NOT TO SCALE




            _____ll::Jf___ ---------
                                                                          




                                                                               11..
                                                                               ~~
                                                                               !i .. NII ..
                                                                               DMMlllY:

                                                                               CIECICED BY:
A                                                                          A



                                             PROPOSED WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                   ....
                                                                                   DATE:



                                                    NOT TO SCALE



    2   I                         4    I                           I
                                                                                   AB
           2                     I   ..                                                 I
                                                                                                                 

                                                                                                                            m11
                                                                                                                            9~111
D                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                            ~i.
                                                                                                                            z~;I
                                                                                                                            ~ IJI
                                                                                                                              l:ic




c   _______________I::l_______
                                                                     ___.1
                                          + - - 1. . . . . . . . . . .        ,.. ,JI
                                                         ,.!!
                                                                                            PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                   NOTTO SCALE




                                                                                                                       


                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                            II..
                                                                                                                            ~~
                                                                             _
                                                                             _[J_[JJ __                                     SL. "" ...
                                                                                                                            IR\WlllM

                                                                                                                            QECICEDIM
A                                                                                                                       A

                                                                                                                               Do\12::
                                                                                                                              IMI




                                                                                            PROPOSED ALLEY ELEVATIONS       ll&l"ND.

                                                                                                   NOTTO SCALE               A9
           2                     I   ..                                                 I
                                                                                                                 
                                                   2                               I                        ..                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                                                                                          OPEN SPACE= 22%
                                                                                                                     WllHOUTTAIClllG INTO~ ll첦FTIEADDllDW.
                                                                                                                           OPEN 9"ACE RUolD ON TIE GREEN ROOF
D                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                           Pllll.ICAllEY




                                    I          I




c                                                          BUILDING @ 1OFT                                                                                                                   c
                                                       /   FROM FRONT PROP. LINE
                                           /
    0
    '"""                                                                               :K
                                                           BUILDING @ 48FT
           LL.I                                            FROM FRONT PROP. LINE
           ....I                /
           r;
           LL.I        1o
           D..                                             BUILDING SETBACK
           0
                                                           PER ARTICLE VII
    LO
    '"""
           0:::
           D..
                                /                          SECTION 704 (C)

                          14'
                                                                              ~
                                               L           AVERAGE GRADE
                                                           665.so
                                         - -- - ---------------------------                        GREEN ROOF'                                                           GREEN ROOF'


                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                     GREEN ROOF'                                                           GREEN ROOF'


                       rn          3...., -3'~"

                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                   SIDE SETBACK RELIEF PER
                   ARTICLE VII SECTION 704 (C)
                                                                                                                                    2               I                ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                 II..
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~~
                                                                                                                                DROP OFF' " SHORT TERM PARKING
                                                                                            LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED                                        LAUREL COURT II PROPOSED             SL. "" ...
                                                                                                    PMA.Cl~      I                                                         DL.UU:~C II
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IR\WllllY':

                                                                                                                                                                                                 QECICEDllY':
A                                                                                                                                                                                            A

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Do\12::
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IMI




                                                                                                                                                                                                  A10
                                                   2                               I                        ..                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                         
D




c




    LAUREL COURT AVENUE PROPOSED ELEVATIONS
                   NOTT08CALE




I




                                              I

A


     SECTION SHOWING UPPER STORY STEP BACK
              ALONG LAUREL AVENUE
                   NOTT08CALE


                                                  A11
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
To:            Mr. Mark Muller
               Fulton Developers

From:          Daniel P. Brinkman, P.E., PTOE
               Amanda L. Larson, P.E.I.

Date:          October 4, 2013

Subject:       Proposed Residential Development
               Laurel Court II
               807-833 Laurel Avenue
               Highland Park, IL


                                 PART I INTRODUCTION & SUMMARY STATEMENT

GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC. (GHA) has conducted a traffic impact study for the above referenced project.
Fulton Developers proposes to re-develop several residential lots along Laurel Avenue into a multi-unit
development. The subject site of Laurel Court II is located east of Laurel Court along the north side of Laurel
Avenue east of Hickory Avenue in Highland Park, IL.

The following analysis is intended to flow from a review of the existing conditions through the proposed plan while
highlighting our approach, methodology, and findings, ultimately providing various recommendations for your
consideration. Briefly summarizing, the additional traffic generated by the proposed residential development can be
readily accommodated by the existing alley system, as well as the area roadways with few additional roadway
improvements.

Exhibits and Appendices referenced in the following text are conveniently located in the Technical Addendum at the
end of this document.

                                      PART II BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Site Location Map and Photo Inventory

      Exhibit 1 provides a location map of the site vicinity and Exhibit 2 provides photo inventory of operations in the
      vicinity of the subject site. Pertinent comments include:

           The subject site is approximately 0.9 acres in total and is located along the north side of Laurel Avenue,
           east of Hickory Avenue in the City of Highland Park.
           Laurel Avenue is considered a minor arterial along the site frontage and is under the jurisdiction of the City
           of Highland Park.
           Along the subject site, Laurel provides one travel lane in each direction and parking on both sides of the
           road. Parking on the south side of Laurel is limited to 3-hours and parking on the north side is metered.
           There are two metered spaces along the eastern edge of the site frontage.
           As Laurel approaches its signalized intersection with Hickory / Deerfield Road a separate eastbound left
           turn lane is provided in addition to the single through lanes.
                                                                     Proposed Residential Development  Laurel Court II
                                                                                                807-833 Laurel Avenue
                                                                                                     Highland Park, IL
        Hickory Street is a local (City of Highland Park) route extending from Central Avenue to Laurel Avenue,
        providing a single travel lane in each direction. Parking is prohibited on both sides of Hickory.
        The northern limit of the subject site is an approximately 20-foot wide public alley referred to as Central
        Court. This alley parallels Central and intersects another public alley northeast of the subject site. Adjacent
        developments including several retail, offices, and the Laurel Court I residential developments have access
        directly to the alley.

    See Appendix I, for an aerial photo of the subject site and surrounding development.

Existing Traffic

    Exhibit 3 summarizes the existing Weekday Morning and Evening Peak Hour traffic volumes in the site vicinity.
    Weekday Peak Period (6-9 AM and 3-6 PM) counts were conducted by GHA on Thursday, September 19th at
    the Laurel Avenue / Hickory Street intersection as well as the Hickory Street intersection with Central Court and
    the Alley intersections surrounding the site.

    The observed Peak Hours occurred from 7:45 to 8:45 AM and 4:30 to 5:30 PM.

    No unusual activities (e.g. emergency vehicle activity, roadway construction, etc) or inclement weather were
    observed during our counts that would be expected to impact traffic volumes or travel patterns in the vicinity.

    Summaries of the existing traffic counts can be found in Appendix II.

                                        PART III PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT

Site Plan

    Exhibit 4 consists of the May 6, 2013 site plan for the proposed Laurel Court II development. As previously
    noted, Fulton Developers intend to construct two buildings in separate phases that will ultimately total 52
    dwelling units. All units will have underground parking accessed from the alley / Central Court. Additionally, a
    total of 13 guest parking spaces along the alley are proposed as well as four spaces along Laurel Avenue in
    front of the main lobby entrance. An additional 5 alley spaces are going to be assigned to the building across
    the alley from the subject site.

Project Traffic Characteristics

    Exhibit 5  Part A tabulates the anticipated traffic generations for the proposed development, based on trip rate
    data published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) in the most recent, 9th Edition of the manual
    Trip Generation using Residential Condominium / Townhouse (Land Use #230. As can be seen, the
    development is expected to generate approximately 30 trips (combined entering and exiting) during both the
    Morning and Evening Peak Hours and approximately 290 trips on a Daily or 24-hour basis.




                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC.  Page 2
                                                                    Proposed Residential Development  Laurel Court II
                                                                                               807-833 Laurel Avenue
                                                                                                    Highland Park, IL
   Exhibit 5  Part B provides the anticipated trip distribution, which is primarily based on the existing traffic
   volumes and patterns observed in the site area. As can be seen, it is anticipated that a majority of the traffic
   with be oriented to/from the west on Laurel Avenue. Ultimately, trip distribution will be based on where residents
   work, shop and travel to.

Traffic Assignments

   Exhibit 6 illustrates the anticipated site traffic volumes generated by the full buildout (52 dwelling units) which
   have been assigned to the area roadway network based on the project's traffic characteristics as discussed
   above and summarized in Exhibit 5 (i.e. traffic generations and trip distribution) and the site access system.

   A 2% growth factor was applied to Existing through traffic (see Exhibit 3) to reflect other non-project traffic
   growth during the phased construction period and then combined with the Site traffic (Exhibit 6) resulting in the
   Total Traffic assignment, which is presented in Exhibit 7.

                                              PART IV EVALUATION

Intersection Capacity Analyses

   Capacity Analyses were conducted at the intersections within the study area. The analysis parameters utilized
   are listed in Part A, as published in the Transportation research Board's (TRB) 2010 Highway Capacity Manual
   (HCM). At signalized intersections, Level of Service (LOS) "reports" traffic operations using the letter
   designations "A" (best) through "F" (worst) and measures the "control delay" per vehicle in seconds. LOS C is
   often referred to as intersection "design" guideline and LOS D is usually considered as providing the lower
   threshold of "acceptable" operations. LOS E and F are usually considered "unacceptable".

   At unsignalized intersections, the HCM methodology reports the results differently for Two-Way Stop Controlled
   (TWSC) or All-Way Stop Controlled (AWSC) intersections. For TWSC intersections, LOS is reported for
   conflicting movements on the major street (i.e. left turns onto the minor approach) and for each movement on
   the stopped approach. Approach "control delay" is also reported in seconds per vehicle. Results of AWSC
   analyses are slightly different. LOS is reported for each stopped approach as well as an average overall
   intersection "control delay" in seconds per vehicle. LOS C and D continue to be considered "design" and
   "acceptable" operations respectively.

   Exhibit 9 Part B. summarizes the intersection capacity analysis results for the Weekday Morning and Evening
   Peak Hours. As can be seen, the additional traffic generated by the Laurel Court II development is expected to
   have a negligible impact on the adjacent roadways and intersection operations. All individual movements and
   intersections will continue to operate at or above the "design" LOS C during both of the analyzed Peak Hours
   with little or no recommended improvements. At the signalized intersection of Laurel Avenue and Hickory
   Street, it would be recommended that a westbound left turn lane be striped in the existing painted median.

   The Highway Capacity Software (HCS) summary printouts are provided as Appendix III for reference.




                                                                       GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC.  Page 3
                                                                     Proposed Residential Development  Laurel Court II
                                                                                                807-833 Laurel Avenue
                                                                                                     Highland Park, IL
                                 PART V RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS

Traffic Operations Plan

Exhibit 9 schematically illustrates the recommendations to accommodate the residential traffic associated with the
Laurel Court II development. Key components include the following:

        The new site access should be under Stop Sign control
        One inbound and one outbound lane should be provided at the site access.

Parking Calculations

    Per the City's Zoning Ordinance, different sizes and types of multi-family dwelling units require different parking
    standards: 1.25 spaces for studio, 1.5 spaces for 1 bedroom, 2 spaces for 2 or more bedroom units, and an
    additional 0.25 spaces of guest parking for buildings with more than 5 units.

    Each of the Laurel Court II buildings are expected to have 16 1 bedroom and 10 2 bedroom units. Furthermore,
    one unit on each level (4 per building) will be considered an "Affordable Housing" unit. The Following
    summarizes the parking calculations per ordinance:

    16 1-bedroom x 1.5 spaces = 24
    10 2-bedroom x 2 spaces = 20
    21 units x 0.25 guest spaces =5.5 ~ 5 (note only "market rate" units must provide guest parking)
    Total = 49 spaces for each building or a total of 98 spaces.

    City ordinance allows for a 15% reduction in parking for units within 1,000 feet of a commuter train station or
    regular bus route. PACE route 471 has regular stops along Central Avenue and Laurel Avenue within this
    distance. While the current site plan proposes 104 spaces (not including the 5 for the adjacent development
    across the alley) plus 4 spaces along Laurel Avenue it is eligible for the Alternative Transportation Reduction
    discount suggesting that only 83 spaces are required.

Conclusion

Based on our observations and analyses we feel that the existing alley and roadway networks can readily
accommodate the traffic generations associated with this type of residential development with the implementation of
the recommended traffic operations plan. Furthermore, it is our finding that the proposed parking supply is more
than sufficient to meet the City's criteria and could be further reduced to potentially provide additional public space
or wider marked spaces for guests and residents.




                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC.  Page 4
                                                                     Proposed Residential Development  Laurel Court II
                                                                                                807-833 Laurel Avenue
                                                                                                     Highland Park, IL
                                         PART VI TECHNICAL ADDENDUM

The following Exhibits were previously referenced. They provide technical support for our observations, findings,
and recommendations discussed in the text.

                        Exhibits
                           1.      Site Location Map
                           2.      Photo Inventory
                           3.      Existing Traffic
                           4.      Site Plan (reduced)
                           5.      Project Traffic Characteristics
                           6.      Site Traffic
                           7.      Total Traffic
                           8.      Intersection Capacity Analyses
                           9.      Recommended Traffic Operations

                        Appendices
                             I. Site Context Aerial
                            II. Traffic Count Summaries
                           III. Highway Capacity Software Summary Worksheets

4784.900 Fulton Laurel Ct II TIS - 100413.doc




                                                                        GEWALT HAMILTON ASSOCIATES, INC.  Page 5
Fulton Developers  Proposed Laurel Court II 807-833 Laurel Avenue; Highland Park, IL
                                                                         Exhibit 1
                                                                         Location Map
Looking west along Laurel, past site approaching Hickory     Looking east on Laurel, past site, from Hickory




 Looking east along Central Court / Alley approach site    Looking west on Alley, approaching site and Hickory

                                                                                                  Exhibit 2
                                                                                                  Photo Inventory
Not to Scale
Exhibit 4 - Site Plan
                                                          Exhibit 5
                                       Project Traffic Characteristics
                          Fulton Developers - Laurel Court II: Laurel Avenue Highland Park, IL

                                                     Morning Peak Hour        Evening Peak Hour
Part A. Trip Generations            ITE Land            7:15-8:15 AM             5:00-6:00 PM           Daily
                                    Use Code          In     Out Sum          In     Out    Sum       Two-Way


 Proposed Residential Development - Laurel Court II

    52 Units                         # 230           5      24       29      17        9        26     290

   Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual, 9th Edition


Part B. Trip Distribution

                Route                    Direction (To /From)              Percent Use by Route
          Laurel Avenue                      East of Site                             25%
                                            West of Hickory                           45%
        Hickory / Deerfield                  South of Laurel                          25%
                                              North of Alley                           5%
                                                                           Total = 100%
Not to Scale
Not to Scale
                                                                  Exhibit 8
                                             Intersection Capacity Analyses
                                       Fulton Developers
                                                    p    - Laurel Court II: Laurel Avenue Highland
                                                                                            g      Park,
                                                                                                       , IL

     A Parameters - Type of Traffic Control
Part A.                                                              (S
                                                                     (Source:      Hi h
                                                                              2010 Highway Capacity
                                                                                           C    it MManual)
                                                                                                         l)
 I.
 I Traffic Signals                                                                                                     II.
                                                                                                                       II Stop Sign

     D l (
 LOS Delay (sec / veh)
                    h)             D    i i
                                   Description                                                                         LOS           D l (
                                                                                                                                     Delay          h)
                                                                                                                                           (sec / veh)
  A          10                    All signal phases clear waiting vehicles without delay                               A                  10
  B      10 and  20
        >10                        Minimal delay experienced on select signal phases                                    B              10 and  15
                                                                                                                                      >10
  C     >20 and  35                Some delay experienced on several phases; often used as design criteria              C             >15 and  25
  D      35 and
        >35    d  55               U   ll considered
                                   Usually    id d as the
                                                      th acceptable
                                                              t bl delay t d d
                                                                    d l standard                                        D             >25 andd  35
  E     >55 and  80                Very long delays experienced during the peak hours                                   E             >35 and  50
  F          >80                   Unacceptable
                                         p      delays
                                                    y experienced
                                                        p         throughout
                                                                       g     the p
                                                                                 peak hours                             F                  >50


     B Results
Part B.                                                                             LOS Per Movement By Approach
                                                                                                 > = Shared Lane                         Intersection /
                                                                                   - = Non Critical or not Allowed Movement                Approach
                                                                                                                                             pp
                                                       Roadway            TRT - Shared Through/Right lane (with an additonal Through
                                                      Conditions                                       lane)

                                                                           Eastbound        Westbound   Northbound     Southbound         Delay
                                                                                                                                              y
                                                                          LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT                           (sec / veh)   LOS



 1 Laurel Ave @ Hickory St
 1.                                                    Signalized                                                                      Intersection Delay

 A. Weekday Morning Peak Hour

  E i ti Traffic
  Existing       (S Exhibit
           T ffi (See E hibit 3 )                        텰
                                                          Current
                                                                t          A   A     <      >   B   <   >     C   <    >     C   <        13 9
                                                                                                                                          13.9        B

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 8 )                       As Planned         A   B     <      >   B   <   >     C   <    >     C   <        14.2
                                                                                                                                          14 2        B

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                       Current         B   A     <      >   B   <   >     C   <    >     C   <        16.1        B

  T lT
  Total         S E
           ffi (See
        Traffic       hibi 8 )
                    Exhibit                            As Planned         A   B     <      >   B   <   >     C   <    >     C   <        14.4        B



 2 All
 2. Alley @ L
            Laurel
                 lAAve                             TWSC (SB Stops)
                                                            St   )                                                                     SB Approach
                                                                                                                                          A      h Delay
                                                                                                                                                   D l

 A Weekday Morning Peak Hour
 A.

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                       Current         >   A      -     -   -   -    -    -    -   >     A   <        10.0        A

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                          Current         >   A      -     -   -   -    -    -    -   >     B   <        10.4        B

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                      텰
                                                          Current
                                                            rrent          >   A      -     -   -   -    -    -    -   >     B   <        11 2
                                                                                                                                          11.2        B

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                          Current         >   A      -     -   -   -    -    -    -   >     B   <        11 5
                                                                                                                                          11.5        B



 3. Central Court @ Alley                          TWSC (EB Stops)                                                                     EB Approach
                                                                                                                                           pp      Delay
                                                                                                                                                       y

 A. Weekday
          y Morning
                  g Peak Hour

  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                       Current         >   A     <      -   -   -   >     A    -    -    -   -         8.4        A

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                         텰
                                                          Current
                                                            rrent          >   A     <      -   -   -   >     A    -    -    -   -         84
                                                                                                                                           8.4        A

 B.
 B Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  Existing
         g Traffic (See
                   (    Exhibit 3 )                       Current         >   A     <      -   -   -   >     A    -    -    -   -         8.5        A

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                          Current         >   A     <      -   -   -   >     A    -    -    -   -         8.6        A



 4 Hickory
 4. Hi k                  t
                C t l Court
           St @ Central C                         TWSC (WB Stops)                                                                      WB Approach Delay

 A Weekday Morning Peak Hour
 A.
  Existing Traffic (See Exhibit 3 )                       Current         -    -     -     >   A   <    -    -    -   >     A   -         8.6
                                                                                                                                           86         A

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                          Current         -    -     -     >   A   <    -    -    -   >     A   -         8.9        A

 B. Weekday Evening Peak Hour

  E i ti Traffic
  Existing T ffi (See
                 (S Exhibit
                      E hibit 3 )                        텰
                                                          Current
                                                                t          -    -     -     >   A   <    -    -    -   >     A   -         87
                                                                                                                                           8.7        A

  Total Traffic (See Exhibit 7 )                          Current         -    -     -     >   A   <    -    -    -   >     A   -         89
                                                                                                                                           8.9        A
Not to Scale
                                                                     Lake County, IL
                                                                                                                          Appendix I - Site Aerial




                                                                                                                                      Subject Site




                                                                                                                                                                                      200 ft



                                                                                         2011 Buildings

                         LakeCounty                                                      Forest Preserves
                         Geographic Information System
                                                                                         Lake County Border

                         Lake County Department                                          Streams
                         of Information Technology                     N                 Tax Parcels
                         18 N County St
                                                                                         Trails
                         Waukegan IL 60085
                         (847) 377-2373                                                  2012 Aerial Photography

                         Map Printed on 09/20/2013


             The selected soil feature layer may not occur anywhere in the current map extent. A Registered Land Surveyor should be consulted to determine the precise location of property boundaries
Disclaimer   on the ground. This map does not constitute a regulatory determination and is not a base for engineering design. This map is intended to be viewed and printed in color.
                                                                Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                         Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                         Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                 gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                             File Name         : Hickory_@_Laurel_128502_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ LAUREL                                                                                                  Site Code         :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                    Start Date        : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                           Page No           :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                            HICKORY                                   LAUREL                                  DEERFIELD                                    LAUREL
                           Southbound                                Westbound                                Northbound                                  Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru    Right  Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru   Right  Peds App. Total     Left   Thru Right     Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
   06:00 AM      0       0        0     0           0      0       4       0      0          4      7       0       0      0           7      3      12         4      0         19           30
   06:15 AM      0       0        1     0           1      0      14       0      2         16     10       1       0      2          13      0      25        10      0         35           65
   06:30 AM      0       0        1     0           1      0       6       0      0          6     11       2       0      0          13      0      14        15      0         29           49
   06:45 AM      0       0        0     0           0      0      14       0      1         15     11       0       0      1          12      2      27        28      0         57           84
       Total     0       0        2     0           2      0      38       0      3         41     39       3       0      3          45      5      78        57      0        140          228

   07:00 AM      0      3       0      0            3      0     16       0       0       16      21       2       0      0          23       2     22        38      0          62          104
   07:15 AM      1      3       1      1            6      0     19       0       1       20      24       0       0      0          24       3     38        36      0          77          127
   07:30 AM      3      0       3      1            7      0     31       0       0       31      35       0       0      0          35       3     72        31      0         106          179
   07:45 AM      1      1       7      0            9      0     40       2       0       42      31       3       0      0          34       5     68        52      0         125          210
       Total     5      7      11      2           25      0    106       2       1      109     111       5       0      0         116      13    200       157      0         370          620

   08:00 AM      0      3       3      0            6      1     28       1       0       30      33       0       0      0          33       3     60        42      0         105          174
   08:15 AM      0      4       1      0            5      0     28       1       0       29      25       6       1      0          32       5     48        45      0          98          164
   08:30 AM      1      2       2      0            5      0     33       2       0       35      37       1       0      0          38       2     68        39      0         109          187
   08:45 AM      4      3       2      0            9      0     23       1       0       24      33       3       0      0          36       4     70        29      0         103          172
       Total     5     12       8      0           25      1    112       5       0      118     128      10       1      0         139      14    246       155      0         415          697



   03:00 PM      1      3       5      1           10      1     64       3       1       69      26       5       0      1          32       3     28        35      0          66          177
   03:15 PM      1      4       5      0           10      0     59       5       0       64      37       5       0      0          42       3     32        40      3          78          194
   03:30 PM      2      4       5      0           11      0     70       4       1       75      47       2       2      0          51       9     38        43      4          94          231
   03:45 PM      2      7       4      1           14      1     58       2       1       62      33       5       0      0          38       2     34        41      1          78          192
       Total     6     18      19      2           45      2    251      14       3      270     143      17       2      1         163      17    132       159      8         316          794

   04:00 PM      3      8       8      0           19      1     61       3       1       66      31       7       0      0          38       2     44        36      0          82          205
   04:15 PM      3      3       6      2           14      0     58       0       2       60      24       3       0      0          27       2     55        36      1          94          195
   04:30 PM      2      7       6      1           16      0     65       1       1       67      30       5       1      0          36       5     47        48      0         100          219
   04:45 PM      1      5       6      0           12      0     68       4       2       74      37       3       0      0          40       5     30        53      0          88          214
       Total     9     23      26      3           61      1    252       8       6      267     122      18       1      0         141      14    176       173      1         364          833

   05:00 PM      0      5       9      0           14      0     77       2       1       80      43       3       1      1          48       4     53        40      1          98          240
   05:15 PM      2      3       5      4           14      0     76       7       1       84      35       7       0      4          46       2     57        50      5         114          258
   05:30 PM      3      4       3      0           10      1     58       1       2       62      41       6       1      1          49       6     38        53      0          97          218
   05:45 PM      1      4       1      0            6      0     65       3       0       68      27       4       0      0          31       2     46        56      2         106          211
       Total     6     16      18      4           44      1    276      13       4      294     146      20       2      6         174      14    194       199      8         415          927
                                                                        Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                                  Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                                  Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                          gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                        File Name        : Hickory_@_Laurel_128502_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ LAUREL                                                                                                             Site Code        :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                               Start Date       : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                      Page No          :2
                                                                               Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                  HICKORY                                     LAUREL                                  DEERFIELD                                        LAUREL
                                 Southbound                                  Westbound                                Northbound                                      Eastbound
                    Left    Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left   Thru   Right  Peds App. Total     Left   Thru Right     Peds     App. Total   Left    Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    Grand Total       31      76      84     11          202        5   1035      42     17     1099       689     73        6    10          778       77    1026        900     17       2020         4099
     Apprch %       15.3    37.6    41.6    5.4                   0.5   94.2     3.8    1.5               88.6    9.4      0.8   1.3                   3.8    50.8       44.6    0.8
       Total %       0.8     1.9       2    0.3          4.9      0.1   25.3       1    0.4      26.8     16.8    1.8      0.1   0.2           19      1.9      25         22    0.4       49.3
           Car        31      74      81      0          186        5    983      41      0     1029       668     71        6     0          745       76     996        872      0       1944         3904
        % Car        100    97.4    96.4      0         92.1     100      95    97.6      0      93.6       97   97.3     100      0         95.8     98.7    97.1       96.9      0       96.2         95.2
       Medium          0       2       0      0            2        0     17       0      0         17      12      1        0     0           13        0       4         18      0         22           54
     % Medium          0     2.6       0      0            1        0    1.6       0      0        1.5     1.7    1.4        0     0          1.7        0     0.4          2      0        1.1          1.3
        Heavy          0       0       3      0            3        0     35       1      0         36       9      1        0     0           10        1      26         10      0         37           86
      % Heavy          0       0     3.6      0          1.5        0    3.4     2.4      0        3.3     1.3    1.4        0     0          1.3      1.3     2.5        1.1      0        1.8          2.1
           Ped         0       0       0     11           11        0      0       0     17         17       0      0        0    10           10        0       0          0     17         17           55
        % Ped          0       0       0    100          5.4        0      0       0   100         1.5       0      0        0   100          1.3        0       0          0    100        0.8          1.3




                                    HICKORY                                   LAUREL                                    DEERFIELD                                  LAUREL
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
     Start Time      Left    Thru     Right   Peds App. Total    Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Left    Thru Right    Peds   App. Total   Left    Thru Right    Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
      07:45 AM          1        1        7       0        9        0     40        2      0         42        31      3      0      0         34         5      68       52       0        125          210
      08:00 AM          0        3        3       0        6        1     28        1      0         30        33      0      0      0         33         3      60       42       0        105          174
      08:15 AM          0        4        1       0        5        0     28        1      0         29        25      6      1      0         32         5      48       45       0         98          164
      08:30 AM          1        2        2       0        5        0     33        2      0         35        37      1      0      0         38         2      68       39       0        109          187
  Total Volume          2       10       13       0       25        1    129        6      0        136      126      10      1      0        137        15    244       178       0        437          735
  % App. Total          8       40       52       0               0.7   94.9      4.4      0                   92    7.3    0.7      0                  3.4   55.8      40.7       0
           PHF      .500     .625      .464    .000    .694      .250   .806    .750    .000       .810     .851    .417   .250   .000       .901     .750    .897      .856    .000       .874         .875
            Car         2        9       13       0       24        1    118        5      0        124      121       8      1      0        130        15    241       170       0        426          704
         % Car       100     90.0       100       0    96.0       100   91.5    83.3       0       91.2     96.0    80.0    100      0       94.9      100    98.8      95.5       0       97.5         95.8
        Medium          0        1        0       0        1        0      2        0      0           2        3      1      0      0           4        0       0        6       0           6           13
     % Medium           0    10.0         0       0      4.0        0    1.6        0      0         1.5      2.4   10.0      0      0         2.9        0       0      3.4       0         1.4          1.8
         Heavy          0        0        0       0        0        0      9        1      0          10        2      1      0      0           3        0       3        2       0           5           18
       % Heavy          0        0        0       0        0        0    7.0    16.7       0         7.4      1.6   10.0      0      0         2.2        0     1.2      1.1       0         1.1          2.4
            Ped         0        0        0       0        0        0      0        0      0           0        0      0      0      0           0        0       0        0       0           0            0
         % Ped          0        0        0       0        0        0      0        0      0           0        0      0      0      0           0        0       0        0       0           0            0
                                                                    Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                    File Name         : Hickory_@_Laurel_128502_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ LAUREL                                                                                                         Site Code         :
6-9AM & 3-6 PM                                                                                                           Start Date        : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                  Page No           :3


                                    HICKORY                               LAUREL                                    DEERFIELD                                  LAUREL
                                   Southbound                            Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
     Start Time      Left    Thru Right Peds App. Total      Left   Thru   Right  Peds     App. Total   Left    Thru Right    Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right    Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
      04:30 PM          2        7        6        1    16      0     65       1       1         67        30      5      1       0         36        5      47     48      0        100          219
      04:45 PM          1        5        6        0    12      0     68       4       2         74        37      3      0       0         40        5      30     53      0         88          214
      05:00 PM          0        5        9        0    14      0     77       2       1         80        43      3      1       1         48        4      53     40      1         98          240
      05:15 PM          2        3        5        4    14      0     76       7       1         84        35      7      0       4         46        2      57     50      5        114          258
  Total Volume          5       20       26        5    56      0    286      14       5        305      145      18      2       5        170       16    187     191      6        400          931
  % App. Total        8.9    35.7     46.4       8.9            0   93.8     4.6     1.6                85.3    10.6    1.2     2.9                   4   46.8    47.8    1.5
           PHF      .625     .714     .722     .313  .875    .000   .929   .500    .625        .908     .843    .643   .500   .313        .885     .800   .820    .901   .300       .877         .902
            Car         5       20       25        0    50      0    277      14       0        291      143      18      2       0        163       16    183     188      0        387          891
         % Car       100      100     96.2         0 89.3       0   96.9    100        0       95.4     98.6     100    100       0       95.9      100   97.9    98.4      0       96.8         95.7
        Medium          0        0        0        0     0      0      1       0       0           1        1      0      0       0           1       0       0      1      0           1            3
     % Medium           0        0        0        0     0      0    0.3       0       0         0.3      0.7      0      0       0         0.6       0       0    0.5      0         0.3          0.3
         Heavy          0        0        1        0     1      0      8       0       0           8        1      0      0       0           1       0       4      2      0           6           16
       % Heavy          0        0      3.8        0   1.8      0    2.8       0       0         2.6      0.7      0      0       0         0.6       0     2.1    1.0      0         1.5          1.7
            Ped         0        0        0        5     5      0      0       0       5           5        0      0      0       5           5       0       0      0      6           6           21
         % Ped          0        0        0     100    8.9      0      0       0    100          1.6        0      0      0    100          2.9       0       0      0    100         1.5          2.3
                                                 Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                    File Name     : Hickory_@_Alley_128501_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ ALLEY                                                                                          Site Code     :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                            Start Date    : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                  Page No       :1
                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                               HICKORY                                   CENTRAL CT / ALLEY                                 HICKORY
                              Southbound                                       Westbound                                    Northbound
        Start Time    Left   Thru      Peds   App. Total         Left       Right        Peds      App. Total   Thru      Right      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
         06:00 AM       0       0         1           1             0            2          0              2       2         1          0           3            6
         06:15 AM       0       2         0           2             0            0          0              0       1         0          0           1            3
         06:30 AM       1       0         0           1             0            1          0              1       3         0          0           3            5
         06:45 AM       0       0         0           0             0            1          0              1       2         0          0           2            3
              Total     1       2         1           4             0            4          0              4       8         1          0           9           17

        07:00 AM        0      3         0            3             0           0           0              0      4          1         0            5            8
        07:15 AM        0      4         0            4             1           2           0              3      4          0         0            4           11
        07:30 AM        1      5         0            6             1           1           1              3      1          4         0            5           14
        07:45 AM        1      7         0            8             1           2           1              4     11          0         0           11           23
            Total       2     19         0           21             3           5           2             10     20          5         0           25           56

        08:00 AM        4      7         0           11             0           1           0              1      5          0         0            5           17
        08:15 AM        3      3         1            7             0           0           2              2     11          1         0           12           21
        08:30 AM        1      5         0            6             0           2           0              2      3          1         0            4           12
        08:45 AM        1      8         0            9             1           1           0              2      9          0         1           10           21
            Total       9     23         1           33             1           4           2              7     28          2         1           31           71



        03:00 PM        3      9         2           14             0           0           1              1     12          1         0           13          28
        03:15 PM        2      7         0            9             2           1           4              7     11          3         1           15          31
        03:30 PM        3     13         2           18             0           3           2              5     10          2         0           12          35
        03:45 PM        0     10         0           10             2           1           3              6      9          1         2           12          28
            Total       8     39         4           51             4           5          10             19     42          7         3           52         122

        04:00 PM        1     17         0           18             3           2           1              6     12          0         0           12          36
        04:15 PM        2     11         0           13             0           2           5              7      5          0         0            5          25
        04:30 PM        1     15         0           16             2           4           3              9     12          1         0           13          38
        04:45 PM        0     10         0           10             0           3           3              6      7          4         0           11          27
            Total       4     53         0           57             5          11          12             28     36          5         0           41         126

        05:00 PM        0     13         0           13             2           5           2              9      7          2         1           10          32
        05:15 PM        0      9         0            9             2           6           7             15     14          1         0           15          39
        05:30 PM        1      8         0            9             1           4           2              7     14          0         0           14          30
        05:45 PM        0      8         0            8             0           1           1              2      9          0         1           10          20
            Total       1     38         0           39             5          16          12             33     44          3         2           49         121
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                               Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                               Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                       gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                       File Name     : Hickory_@_Alley_128501_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ ALLEY                                                                                                             Site Code     :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                               Start Date    : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                     Page No       :2
                                                                             Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                              HICKORY                                      CENTRAL CT / ALLEY                                  HICKORY
                                             Southbound                                          Westbound                                     Northbound
                               Left         Thru      Peds      App. Total         Left       Right        Peds      App. Total    Thru      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
            Grand Total         25           174          6           205           18            45         38            101      178         23          6         207          513
              Apprch %         12.2         84.9        2.9                        17.8        44.6         37.6                     86       11.1        2.9
                Total %         4.9         33.9        1.2            40           3.5          8.8         7.4          19.7     34.7        4.5        1.2        40.4
                    Car         25           169          0          194            18            45           0            63      173         23          0        196          453
                 % Car         100          97.1          0          94.6          100          100            0          62.4     97.2       100           0        94.7         88.3
               Medium             0            2          0             2             0            0           0             0        2          0          0           2            4
             % Medium             0          1.1          0             1             0            0           0             0      1.1          0          0           1          0.8
                 Heavy            0            3          0             3             0            0           0             0        3          0          0           3            6
               % Heavy            0          1.7          0           1.5             0            0           0             0      1.7          0          0         1.4          1.2
                   Ped            0            0          6             6             0            0         38             38        0          0          6           6          50
                 % Ped            0            0        100           2.9             0            0        100           37.6        0          0        100         2.9          9.7




                                                HICKORY                                    CENTRAL CT / ALLEY                                  HICKORY
                                               Southbound                                      Westbound                                       Northbound
             Start Time           Left       Thru       Peds    App. Total          Left     Right      Peds          App. Total   Thru      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
              07:30 AM              1            5          0           6             1           1           1               3       1          4          0           5           14
              07:45 AM              1            7          0           8             1           2           1               4      11          0          0          11           23
              08:00 AM              4            7          0          11             0           1           0               1       5          0          0           5           17
              08:15 AM              3            3          1           7             0           0           2               2      11          1          0          12           21
          Total Volume              9           22          1          32             2           4           4              10      28          5          0          33           75
          % App. Total           28.1         68.8        3.1                        20          40          40                    84.8       15.2          0
                    PHF          .563         .786       .250        .727          .500        .500        .500            .625    .636       .313       .000        .688         .815
                     Car            9           20          0          29             2           4           0               6      26          5          0          31           66
                  % Car           100         90.9          0        90.6           100         100           0            60.0    92.9        100          0        93.9         88.0
               Medium               0            1          0           1             0           0           0               0       0          0          0           0            1
             % Medium               0          4.5          0         3.1             0           0           0               0       0          0          0           0          1.3
                 Heavy              0            1          0           1             0           0           0               0       2          0          0           2            3
               % Heavy              0          4.5          0         3.1             0           0           0               0     7.1          0          0         6.1          4.0
                    Ped             0            0          1           1             0           0           4               4       0          0          0           0            5
                 % Ped              0            0        100         3.1             0           0         100            40.0       0          0          0           0          6.7
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                     File Name     : Hickory_@_Alley_128501_09-19-2013
HICKORY @ ALLEY                                                                                                           Site Code     :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                             Start Date    : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                   Page No       :3


                                                HICKORY                                 CENTRAL CT / ALLEY                                   HICKORY
                                               Southbound                                   Westbound                                        Northbound
             Start Time           Left       Thru       Peds    App. Total       Left     Right      Peds           App. Total   Thru      Right      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
              04:30 PM               1          15          0          16           2          4           3                9      12          1         0          13          38
              04:45 PM               0          10          0          10           0          3           3                6       7          4         0          11          27
              05:00 PM               0          13          0          13           2          5           2                9       7          2         1          10          32
              05:15 PM               0           9          0           9           2          6           7               15      14          1         0          15          39
          Total Volume               1          47          0          48           6         18          15               39      40          8         1          49         136
          % App. Total             2.1        97.9          0                    15.4       46.2        38.5                     81.6       16.3         2
                    PHF          .250         .783       .000        .750        .750       .750        .536             .650    .714       .500      .250        .817         .872
                     Car             1          46          0          47           6         18           0               24      40          8         0          48          119
                  % Car           100         97.9          0        97.9         100        100           0             61.5     100        100         0        98.0         87.5
               Medium                0           0          0           0           0          0           0                0       0          0         0           0            0
             % Medium                0           0          0           0           0          0           0                0       0          0         0           0            0
                 Heavy               0           1          0           1           0          0           0                0       0          0         0           0            1
               % Heavy               0         2.1          0         2.1           0          0           0                0       0          0         0           0          0.7
                    Ped              0           0          0           0           0          0          15               15       0          0         1           1           16
                 % Ped               0           0          0           0           0          0         100             38.5       0          0       100         2.0         11.8
                                                 Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                      File Name    : Laurel_@_Alley_128499_09-19-2013
ALLEY@ LAUREL                                                                                              Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                              Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                    Page No      :1
                                                           Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                 ALLEY                                           LAUREL                                       LAUREL
                              Southbound                                       Westbound                                    Eastbound
        Start Time    Left   Right     Peds   App. Total        Thru        Right        Peds      App. Total    Left      Thru      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
         06:00 AM       0       0         0           0             3            0          0              3       0         12         0          12           15
         06:15 AM       0       0         1           1           14             0          0             14       2         24         0          26           41
         06:30 AM       0       1         0           1             6            1          0              7       0         14         0          14           22
         06:45 AM       0       1         0           1           14             1          0             15       1         28         0          29           45
              Total     0       2         1           3           37             2          0             39       3         78         0          81          123

        07:00 AM        0       1         0           1            12           0           0             12       1        20         0           21          34
        07:15 AM        0       0         0           0            18           0           0             18       0        38         0           38          56
        07:30 AM        0       1         0           1            28           0           0             28       1        75         0           76         105
        07:45 AM        1       1         0           2            44           1           0             45       0        70         0           70         117
            Total       1       3         0           4           102           1           0            103       2       203         0          205         312

        08:00 AM        1       1         2           4            28           1           0             29       2        57         0           59          92
        08:15 AM        0       1         1           2            30           0           0             30       4        43         0           47          79
        08:30 AM        2       2         0           4            34           0           0             34       3        66         0           69         107
        08:45 AM        1       0         3           4            24           2           0             26       0        76         1           77         107
            Total       4       4         6          14           116           3           0            119       9       242         1          252         385



        03:00 PM        2       4         1           7            67           2           0             69       0        29         0           29         105
        03:15 PM        4       1         0           5            60           0           0             60       1        31         0           32          97
        03:30 PM        2       2         5           9            73           1           0             74       1        41         0           42         125
        03:45 PM        0       1         3           4            58           0           0             58       1        36         1           38         100
            Total       8       8         9          25           258           3           0            261       3       137         1          141         427

        04:00 PM        0       0         0           0            62           2           0             64       3        45         0           48         112
        04:15 PM        3       4         0           7            55           1           0             56       1        57         0           58         121
        04:30 PM        3       2         2           7            59           3           0             62       0        48         0           48         117
        04:45 PM        0       2         3           5            73           1           0             74       1        31         0           32         111
            Total       6       8         5          19           249           7           0            256       5       181         0          186         461

        05:00 PM        3       4         1           8            74           1           1             76       1        54         0           55         139
        05:15 PM        3       1         3           7            81           4           0             85       6        54         0           60         152
        05:30 PM        0       1         3           4            58           4           1             63       2        36         0           38         105
        05:45 PM        2       6         3          11            62           0           0             62       4        42         0           46         119
            Total       8      12        10          30           275           9           2            286      13       186         0          199         515
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                               Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                               Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                       gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                         File Name    : Laurel_@_Alley_128499_09-19-2013
ALLEY@ LAUREL                                                                                                                 Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                                 Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                       Page No      :2
                                                                             Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                               ALLEY                                               LAUREL                                        LAUREL
                                             Southbound                                          Westbound                                      Eastbound
                               Left        Right      Peds      App. Total        Thru        Right        Peds      App. Total     Left      Thru       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
            Grand Total         27            37         31            95         1037            25           2          1064       35       1027          2        1064         2223
              Apprch %         28.4         38.9       32.6                        97.5          2.3         0.2                     3.3      96.5        0.2
                Total %         1.2          1.7        1.4           4.3          46.6          1.1         0.1          47.9       1.6      46.2        0.1        47.9
                    Car         27            37          0            64          984            25           0          1009       35        996          0        1031        2104
                 % Car         100          100           0          67.4          94.9         100            0          94.8      100         97          0        96.9        94.6
               Medium             0            0          0             0           17             0           0            17         0         6          0           6          23
             % Medium             0            0          0             0           1.6            0           0           1.6         0       0.6          0         0.6           1
                 Heavy            0            0          0             0           36             0           0            36         0        25          0          25          61
               % Heavy            0            0          0             0           3.5            0           0           3.4         0       2.4          0         2.3         2.7
                   Ped            0            0         31            31             0            0           2             2         0         0          2           2          35
                 % Ped            0            0        100          32.6             0            0        100            0.2         0         0        100         0.2         1.6




                                                 ALLEY                                           LAUREL                                         LAUREL
                                               Southbound                                       Westbound                                      Eastbound
             Start Time           Left       Right      Peds    App. Total         Thru       Right     Peds          App. Total    Left      Thru      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
              07:45 AM              1            1          0           2            44            1          0              45        0        70          0          70         117
              08:00 AM              1            1          2           4            28            1          0              29        2        57          0          59          92
              08:15 AM              0            1          1           2            30            0          0              30        4        43          0          47          79
              08:30 AM              2            2          0           4            34            0          0              34        3        66          0          69         107
          Total Volume              4            5          3          12           136            2          0             138        9       236          0         245         395
          % App. Total           33.3         41.7         25                      98.6          1.4          0                      3.7      96.3          0
                    PHF          .500         .625       .375        .750          .773        .500        .000            .767     .563      .843       .000        .875         .844
                     Car            4            5          0           9           124            2          0             126        9       233          0         242          377
                  % Car           100          100          0        75.0          91.2         100           0            91.3      100      98.7          0        98.8         95.4
               Medium               0            0          0           0             3            0          0               3        0         0          0           0            3
             % Medium               0            0          0           0           2.2            0          0             2.2        0         0          0           0          0.8
                 Heavy              0            0          0           0             9            0          0               9        0         3          0           3           12
               % Heavy              0            0          0           0           6.6            0          0             6.5        0       1.3          0         1.2          3.0
                    Ped             0            0          3           3             0            0          0               0        0         0          0           0            3
                 % Ped              0            0        100        25.0             0            0          0               0        0         0          0           0          0.8
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                       File Name    : Laurel_@_Alley_128499_09-19-2013
ALLEY@ LAUREL                                                                                                               Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                     Page No      :3


                                                 ALLEY                                        LAUREL                                          LAUREL
                                               Southbound                                    Westbound                                       Eastbound
             Start Time           Left       Right      Peds    App. Total      Thru       Right     Peds           App. Total    Left      Thru      Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
              04:30 PM              3            2          2           7          59          3           0               62        0        48         0          48         117
              04:45 PM              0            2          3           5          73          1           0               74        1        31         0          32         111
              05:00 PM              3            4          1           8          74          1           1               76        1        54         0          55         139
              05:15 PM              3            1          3           7          81          4           0               85        6        54         0          60         152
          Total Volume              9            9          9          27         287          9           1              297        8       187         0         195         519
          % App. Total           33.3         33.3       33.3                    96.6          3         0.3                       4.1      95.9         0
                    PHF          .750         .563       .750        .844        .886       .563        .250             .874     .333      .866      .000        .813         .854
                     Car            9            9          0          18         279          9           0              288        8       183         0         191          497
                  % Car           100          100          0        66.7        97.2        100           0             97.0      100      97.9         0        97.9         95.8
               Medium               0            0          0           0           0          0           0                0        0         0         0           0            0
             % Medium               0            0          0           0           0          0           0                0        0         0         0           0            0
                 Heavy              0            0          0           0           8          0           0                8        0         4         0           4           12
               % Heavy              0            0          0           0         2.8          0           0              2.7        0       2.1         0         2.1          2.3
                    Ped             0            0          9           9           0          0           1                1        0         0         0           0           10
                 % Ped              0            0        100        33.3           0          0         100              0.3        0         0         0           0          1.9
                                                Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                          Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                          Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                  gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                        File Name    : Alley_@_Alley_128494_09-19-2013
ALLEY / ALLEY                                                                                                Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                      Page No      :1
                                                        Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                              N-S ALLEY                                     N-S ALLEY                                     CENTRAL CT / ALLEY
                             Southbound                                     Northbound                                        Eastbound
        Start Time   Thru   Right     Peds   App. Total       Left        Thru        Peds      App. Total        Left      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

        06:15 AM        0      1         0           1           0           0           0              0           0           0        0             0            1

        06:45 AM        1      0         0           1           1           1           2              4           1           0        0             1            6
            Total       1      1         0           2           1           1           2              4           1           0        0             1            7

        07:00 AM        0      1         0           1           0           0           0              0           0           0        1             1            2
        07:15 AM        1      0         0           1           0           0           0              0           0           0        1             1            2
        07:30 AM        2      1         0           3           0           1           0              1           2           0        0             2            6
        07:45 AM        3      0         0           3           0           0           0              0           1           0        0             1            4
            Total       6      2         0           8           0           1           0              1           3           0        2             5           14

        08:00 AM       4       0         0           4           0           0           0              0           0           0        0             0            4
        08:15 AM       0       1         0           1           0           5           0              5           1           0        1             2            8
        08:30 AM       0       1         0           1           1           2           0              3           2           1        5             8           12
        08:45 AM       6       1         0           7           1           2           0              3           0           0        4             4           14
            Total     10       3         0          13           2           9           0             11           3           1       10            14           38



        03:00 PM        2      1         0           3           0           1           0              1           3           1        2             6           10
        03:15 PM        1      0         0           1           0           1           0              1           1           4        2             7            9
        03:30 PM        0      2         1           3           0           0           0              0           1           2        1             4            7
        03:45 PM        1      1         1           3           0           0           0              0           3           0        0             3            6
            Total       4      4         2          10           0           2           0              2           8           7        5            20           32

        04:00 PM        0      3         0           3           2           1           0              3           0           0        0             0            6
        04:15 PM        2      0         0           2           2           0           1              3           1           3        2             6           11
        04:30 PM        2      1         0           3           0           2           0              2           0           0        3             3            8
        04:45 PM        4      1         0           5           0           2           0              2           1           0        0             1            8
            Total       8      5         0          13           4           5           1             10           2           3        5            10           33

        05:00 PM        3      0         0           3           0           2           1              3           1           1        1             3            9
        05:15 PM        1      0         0           1           3           3           0              6           3           2        0             5           12
        05:30 PM        1      1         0           2           2           4           0              6           4           0        1             5           13
        05:45 PM        2      4         0           6           0           2           2              4           0           1        5             6           16
            Total       7      5         0          12           5          11           3             19           8           4        7            19           50
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                               Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                               Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                       gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                              File Name    : Alley_@_Alley_128494_09-19-2013
ALLEY / ALLEY                                                                                                                      Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                            Page No      :2
                                                                             Groups Printed- Car - Medium - Heavy - Ped
                                             N-S ALLEY                                           N-S ALLEY                                      CENTRAL CT / ALLEY
                                             Southbound                                          Northbound                                         Eastbound
                               Thru        Right      Peds      App. Total         Left        Thru        Peds      App. Total         Left      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
            Grand Total          36           20          2            58           12            29           6            47           25         15         29           69          174
              Apprch %         62.1         34.5        3.4                        25.5        61.7         12.8                        36.2       21.7        42
                Total %        20.7         11.5        1.1          33.3           6.9        16.7          3.4            27          14.4        8.6       16.7        39.7
                    Car          34           20          0            54           12            29           0            41           25         15           0         40          135
                 % Car         94.4         100           0          93.1          100          100            0          87.2          100        100           0         58          77.6
               Medium             2            0          0             2             0            0           0             0             0          0          0           0            2
             % Medium           5.6            0          0           3.4             0            0           0             0             0          0          0           0          1.1
                 Heavy            0            0          0             0             0            0           0             0             0          0          0           0            0
               % Heavy            0            0          0             0             0            0           0             0             0          0          0           0            0
                   Ped            0            0          2             2             0            0           6             6             0          0        29          29           37
                 % Ped            0            0        100           3.4             0            0        100           12.8             0          0       100          42          21.3




                                               N-S ALLEY                                        N-S ALLEY                                       CENTRAL CT / ALLEY
                                               Southbound                                       Northbound                                          Eastbound
             Start Time          Thru        Right      Peds    App. Total          Left       Thru      Peds         App. Total        Left      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
              08:00 AM              4            0          0           4             0           0           0               0            0          0         0            0            4
              08:15 AM              0            1          0           1             0           5           0               5            1          0         1            2            8
              08:30 AM              0            1          0           1             1           2           0               3            2          1         5            8           12
              08:45 AM              6            1          0           7             1           2           0               3            0          0         4            4           14
          Total Volume             10            3          0          13             2           9           0              11            3          1        10           14           38
          % App. Total           76.9         23.1          0                      18.2        81.8           0                         21.4        7.1      71.4
                    PHF          .417         .750       .000        .464          .500        .450        .000            .550         .375       .250      .500         .438         .679
                     Car           10            3          0          13             2           9           0              11            3          1         0            4           28
                  % Car           100          100          0         100           100         100           0             100          100        100         0         28.6         73.7
               Medium               0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0         0            0            0
             % Medium               0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0         0            0            0
                 Heavy              0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0         0            0            0
               % Heavy              0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0         0            0            0
                    Ped             0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0        10           10           10
                 % Ped              0            0          0           0             0           0           0               0            0          0       100         71.4         26.3
                                                                   Gewalt Hamilton Associates, Inc.
                                                                             Vernon Hills - Gurnee - Chicago
                                                                             Civil - Municipal - Traffic - Survey
                                                                                     gha-engineers.com



4784.900 LAUREL CT II                                                                                                            File Name    : Alley_@_Alley_128494_09-19-2013
ALLEY / ALLEY                                                                                                                    Site Code    :
6-9AM & 3-6PM                                                                                                                    Start Date   : 9/19/2013
GHA MIO                                                                                                                          Page No      :3


                                               N-S ALLEY                                     N-S ALLEY                                        CENTRAL CT / ALLEY
                                               Southbound                                    Northbound                                           Eastbound
             Start Time          Thru        Right      Peds    App. Total       Left       Thru      Peds          App. Total        Left      Right      Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
              05:00 PM              3            0          0           3           0          2           1                3            1          1         1            3            9
              05:15 PM              1            0          0           1           3          3           0                6            3          2         0            5           12
              05:30 PM              1            1          0           2           2          4           0                6            4          0         1            5           13
              05:45 PM              2            4          0           6           0          2           2                4            0          1         5            6           16
          Total Volume              7            5          0          12           5         11           3               19            8          4         7           19           50
          % App. Total           58.3         41.7          0                    26.3       57.9        15.8                          42.1       21.1      36.8
                    PHF          .583         .313       .000        .500        .417       .688        .375             .792         .500       .500      .350         .792         .781
                     Car            6            5          0          11           5         11           0               16            8          4         0           12           39
                  % Car          85.7          100          0        91.7         100        100           0             84.2          100        100         0         63.2         78.0
               Medium               1            0          0           1           0          0           0                0            0          0         0            0            1
             % Medium            14.3            0          0         8.3           0          0           0                0            0          0         0            0          2.0
                 Heavy              0            0          0           0           0          0           0                0            0          0         0            0            0
               % Heavy              0            0          0           0           0          0           0                0            0          0         0            0            0
                    Ped             0            0          0           0           0          0           3                3            0          0         7            7           10
                 % Ped              0            0          0           0           0          0         100             15.8            0          0       100         36.8         20.0
                                       HCS 2010 Signalized Intersection Results Summary

 General Information                                                                                       Intersection Information
 Agency                    GHA                                                                             Duration, h       0.25
 Analyst                   ALL                   Analysis Date Sep 26, 2013                                Area Type         Other
 Jurisdiction                                    Time Period AM EXISTING                                   PHF               0.95
 Intersection              LAUREL @ DEEFIELD/HICKORY
                                                 Analysis Year 2013                                        Analysis Period 1> 7:00
 File Name                 AM EX - LAUREL @ HICKORY.xus
 Project Description       AM EXISTING

 Demand Information                                                    EB                            WB                         NB                             SB
 Approach Movement                                             L        T           R           L     T          R      L        T             R       L        T          R
 Demand (v), veh/h                                             15      244         178          1    134         6     126      11             1       2       10          13

 Signal Information
 Cycle, s        90.0       Reference Phase         2
                                                                                                                                           1           2         3              4
 Offset, s        0         Reference Point        End
                                                           Green 15.0           40.0        20.0     0.0         0.0   0.0
 Uncoordinated Yes          Simult. Gap E/W        On      Yellow 3.0           4.5         4.5      0.0         0.0   0.0
 Force Mode     Fixed       Simult. Gap N/S        On      Red    0.0           1.5         1.5      0.0         0.0   0.0                 5           6         7




 Timer Results                                                 EBL            EBT            WBL            WBT        NBL            NBT              SBL            SBT
 Assigned Phase                                                  5              2                             6                         8                               4
 Case Number                                                    1.0            4.0                           8.3                       8.0                             8.0
 Phase Duration, s                                             18.0           64.0                          46.0                      26.0                            26.0
 Change Period, (Y+Rc), s                                       3.0            6.0                           6.0                       6.0                             6.0
 Max Allow Headway (MAH), s                                     3.1            3.2                           3.2                       3.2                             3.2
 Queue Clearance Time (gs), s                                   2.3           12.7                           6.2                       9.5                             3.1
 Green Extension Time (ge), s                                   0.0            1.2                           1.2                       0.2                             0.3
 Phase Call Probability                                        1.00           1.00                          1.00                      1.00                            1.00
 Max Out Probability                                           0.00           0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00

 Movement Group Results                                                 EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Approach Movement                                            L          T      R           L          T      R        L        T       R              L        T       R
 Assigned Movement                                            5          2      12          1          6      16       3         8      18             7         4      14
 Adjusted Flow Rate (v), veh/h                               16        444                           148                       145                              26
 Adjusted Saturation Flow Rate (s), veh/h/ln               1774       1775                          1917                      1464                            1705
 Queue Service Time (gs), s                                  0.3       10.7                           0.0                      6.4                             0.0
 Cycle Queue Clearance Time (gc), s                          0.3       10.7                           4.2                      7.5                             1.1
 Green Ratio (g/C)                                          0.63       0.64                          0.44                      0.22                            0.22
 Capacity (c), veh/h                                        867       1144                           892                       402                             422
 Volume-to-Capacity Ratio (X)                              0.018      0.388                         0.166                     0.361                           0.062
 Available Capacity (ca), veh/h                             867       1144                           892                       402                             422
 Back of Queue (Q), veh/ln (95th percentile)                 0.2        6.2                           3.1                      4.8                             0.8
 Queue Storage Ratio (RQ) (95th percentile)                 0.08       0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00
 Uniform Delay (d1), s/veh                                   6.3        7.6                          15.1                      30.0                            27.6
 Incremental Delay (d2), s/veh                               0.0        0.1                           0.0                      0.2                             0.0
 Initial Queue Delay (d3), s/veh                             0.0        0.0                           0.0                      0.0                             0.0
 Control Delay (d), s/veh                                    6.3        7.7                          15.1                      30.2                            27.7
 Level of Service (LOS)                                       A          A                             B                        C                               C
 Approach Delay, s/veh / LOS                                   7.6             A             15.1            B         30.2            C               27.7            C
 Intersection Delay, s/veh / LOS                                                     13.9                                                          B

 Multimodal Results                                                    EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Pedestrian LOS Score / LOS                                    2.1             B             2.1             B         2.1             B               2.3             B
 Bicycle LOS Score / LOS                                       1.2             A             0.7             A         0.7             A               0.5             A
Copyright  2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved.                   HCS 2010TM Streets Version 6.50                        Generated: 9/26/2013 3:44:46 PM
                                       HCS 2010 Signalized Intersection Results Summary

 General Information                                                                                       Intersection Information
 Agency                    GHA                                                                             Duration, h       0.25
 Analyst                   ALL                   Analysis Date Sep 26, 2013                                Area Type         Other
 Jurisdiction                                    Time Period AM TOTAL                                      PHF               0.95
 Intersection              LAUREL @ DEEFIELD/HIC Analysis Year 2013                                        Analysis Period 1> 7:00
 File Name                 AM TOTAL - LAUREL @ HICKORY.xus
 Project Description       AM TOTAL

 Demand Information                                                    EB                             WB                        NB                             SB
 Approach Movement                                              L       T           R           L      T         R      L        T             R       L        T          R
 Demand (v), veh/h                                             18      251         184          3     138        6     130      12             1       2       14          24

 Signal Information
 Cycle, s        90.0       Reference Phase         2
                                                                                                                                           1           2         3              4
 Offset, s        0         Reference Point        End
                                                           Green 15.0           40.0        20.0     0.0         0.0   0.0
 Uncoordinated Yes          Simult. Gap E/W        On      Yellow 3.0           4.5         4.5      0.0         0.0   0.0
 Force Mode     Fixed       Simult. Gap N/S        On      Red    0.0           1.5         1.5      0.0         0.0   0.0                 5           6         7




 Timer Results                                                 EBL            EBT            WBL            WBT        NBL            NBT              SBL            SBT
 Assigned Phase                                                  5              2                             6                         8                               4
 Case Number                                                   1.0             4.0                           8.3                       8.0                            8.0
 Phase Duration, s                                             18.0           64.0                          46.0                      26.0                            26.0
 Change Period, (Y+Rc), s                                      3.0             6.0                           6.0                       6.0                            6.0
 Max Allow Headway (MAH), s                                    3.1             3.2                           3.2                       3.2                            3.2
 Queue Clearance Time (gs), s                                  2.4            13.1                           6.4                       9.6                            3.8
 Green Extension Time (ge), s                                  0.0             1.3                           1.3                       0.3                            0.3
 Phase Call Probability                                        1.00           1.00                          1.00                      1.00                            1.00
 Max Out Probability                                           0.00           0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00

 Movement Group Results                                                 EB                           WB                         NB                              SB
 Approach Movement                                            L          T      R           L         T       R        L        T       R              L        T       R
 Assigned Movement                                            5          2      12          1         6       16       3        8       18             7         4      14
 Adjusted Flow Rate (v), veh/h                               19        458                           155                       151                              42
 Adjusted Saturation Flow Rate (s), veh/h/ln               1774       1774                          1912                      1465                            1685
 Queue Service Time (gs), s                                 0.4        11.1                          0.0                       5.8                             0.0
 Cycle Queue Clearance Time (gc), s                         0.4        11.1                          4.4                       7.6                             1.8
 Green Ratio (g/C)                                          0.63      0.64                          0.44                      0.22                            0.22
 Capacity (c), veh/h                                        863       1143                           890                       402                             416
 Volume-to-Capacity Ratio (X)                              0.022      0.400                         0.174                     0.374                           0.101
 Available Capacity (ca), veh/h                             863       1143                           890                       402                             416
 Back of Queue (Q), veh/ln (95th percentile)                0.2         6.5                          3.3                       4.9                             1.3
 Queue Storage Ratio (RQ) (95th percentile)                 0.10      0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00
 Uniform Delay (d1), s/veh                                  6.3         7.7                         15.1                      30.0                            27.9
 Incremental Delay (d2), s/veh                              0.0         0.1                          0.0                       0.2                             0.0
 Initial Queue Delay (d3), s/veh                            0.0         0.0                          0.0                       0.0                             0.0
 Control Delay (d), s/veh                                   6.3         7.8                         15.1                      30.2                            28.0
 Level of Service (LOS)                                      A           A                            B                         C                               C
 Approach Delay, s/veh / LOS                                   7.7             A             15.1            B         30.2            C               28.0            C
 Intersection Delay, s/veh / LOS                                                     14.2                                                          B

 Multimodal Results                                                    EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Pedestrian LOS Score / LOS                                    2.1             B             2.1             B         2.1             B               2.3             B
 Bicycle LOS Score / LOS                                       1.3             A             0.7             A         0.7             A               0.6             A
Copyright  2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved.                   HCS 2010TM Streets Version 6.50                        Generated: 10/4/2013 2:00:47 PM
                                       HCS 2010 Signalized Intersection Results Summary

 General Information                                                                                       Intersection Information
 Agency                    GHA                                                                             Duration, h       0.25
 Analyst                   ALL                   Analysis Date Sep 26, 2013                                Area Type         Other
 Jurisdiction                                    Time Period PM EXISTING                                   PHF               0.95
 Intersection              LAUREL @ DEEFIELD/HICKORY
                                                 Analysis Year 2013                                        Analysis Period 1> 7:00
 File Name                 PM EX - LAUREL @ HICKORY.xus
 Project Description       PM EXISTING

 Demand Information                                                    EB                            WB                         NB                             SB
 Approach Movement                                             L        T           R           L     T          R      L        T             R       L        T          R
 Demand (v), veh/h                                             16      187         191          1    286         14    145      18             2       5       20          28

 Signal Information
 Cycle, s        90.0       Reference Phase         2
                                                                                                                                           1           2         3              4
 Offset, s        0         Reference Point        End
                                                           Green 15.0           40.0        20.0     0.0         0.0   0.0
 Uncoordinated Yes          Simult. Gap E/W        On      Yellow 3.0           4.5         4.5      0.0         0.0   0.0
 Force Mode     Fixed       Simult. Gap N/S        On      Red    0.0           1.5         1.5      0.0         0.0   0.0                 5           6         7




 Timer Results                                                 EBL            EBT            WBL            WBT        NBL            NBT              SBL            SBT
 Assigned Phase                                                  5              2                             6                         8                               4
 Case Number                                                    1.0            4.0                           8.3                       8.0                             8.0
 Phase Duration, s                                             18.0           64.0                          46.0                      26.0                            26.0
 Change Period, (Y+Rc), s                                       3.0            6.0                           6.0                       6.0                             6.0
 Max Allow Headway (MAH), s                                     3.1            3.2                           3.2                       3.2                             3.2
 Queue Clearance Time (gs), s                                   2.3           60.0                          42.0                      10.9                             4.4
 Green Extension Time (ge), s                                   0.0            0.0                           0.0                       0.3                             0.4
 Phase Call Probability                                        1.00           1.00                          1.00                      1.00                            1.00
 Max Out Probability                                           0.00           1.00                          1.00                      0.00                            0.00

 Movement Group Results                                                 EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Approach Movement                                            L          T      R           L          T      R        L        T       R              L        T       R
 Assigned Movement                                            5          2      12          1          6      16       3         8      18             7         4      14
 Adjusted Flow Rate (v), veh/h                               17        398                           317                       174                              56
 Adjusted Saturation Flow Rate (s), veh/h/ln               1774       1746                          1662                      1473                            1697
 Queue Service Time (gs), s                                  0.3        9.4                           0.0                      6.6                             0.0
 Cycle Queue Clearance Time (gc), s                          0.3        9.4                          40.0                      8.9                             2.4
 Green Ratio (g/C)                                          0.63       0.64                          0.44                      0.22                            0.22
 Capacity (c), veh/h                                        376       1125                           779                       403                             421
 Volume-to-Capacity Ratio (X)                              0.045      0.354                         0.407                     0.432                           0.133
 Available Capacity (ca), veh/h                             376       1125                           779                       403                             421
 Back of Queue (Q), veh/ln (95th percentile)                 0.3        5.4                           7.4                      5.8                             1.7
 Queue Storage Ratio (RQ) (95th percentile)                 0.12       0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00
 Uniform Delay (d1), s/veh                                  15.9        7.4                          16.8                      30.5                            28.1
 Incremental Delay (d2), s/veh                               0.0        0.1                           0.1                      0.3                             0.1
 Initial Queue Delay (d3), s/veh                             0.0        0.0                           0.0                      0.0                             0.0
 Control Delay (d), s/veh                                   15.9        7.4                          16.9                      30.7                            28.2
 Level of Service (LOS)                                       B          A                             B                        C                               C
 Approach Delay, s/veh / LOS                                   7.8             A             16.9            B         30.7            C               28.2            C
 Intersection Delay, s/veh / LOS                                                     16.1                                                          B

 Multimodal Results                                                    EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Pedestrian LOS Score / LOS                                    2.1             B             2.1             B         2.1             B               2.3             B
 Bicycle LOS Score / LOS                                       1.2             A             1.0             A         0.8             A               0.6             A
Copyright  2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved.                   HCS 2010TM Streets Version 6.50                        Generated: 9/26/2013 3:17:23 PM
                                       HCS 2010 Signalized Intersection Results Summary

 General Information                                                                                       Intersection Information
 Agency                    GHA                                                                             Duration, h       0.25
 Analyst                   ALL                   Analysis Date Sep 26, 2013                                Area Type         Other
 Jurisdiction                                    Time Period PM TOTAL                                      PHF               0.95
 Intersection              LAUREL @ DEEFIELD/HIC Analysis Year 2013                                        Analysis Period 1> 7:00
 File Name                 PM TOTAL - LAUREL @ HICKORY2.xus
 Project Description       PM TOTAL

 Demand Information                                                    EB                             WB                        NB                             SB
 Approach Movement                                              L       T           R           L      T         R      L        T             R       L        T          R
 Demand (v), veh/h                                             22      195         197          1     295        14    149      22             3       5       23          33

 Signal Information
 Cycle, s        83.0       Reference Phase         2
                                                                                                                                           1           2         3              4
 Offset, s        0         Reference Point        End
                                                           Green 8.0            40.0        20.0     0.0         0.0   0.0
 Uncoordinated Yes          Simult. Gap E/W        On      Yellow 3.0           4.5         4.5      0.0         0.0   0.0
 Force Mode     Fixed       Simult. Gap N/S        On      Red    0.0           1.5         1.5      0.0         0.0   0.0                 5           6         7




 Timer Results                                                 EBL            EBT            WBL            WBT        NBL            NBT              SBL            SBT
 Assigned Phase                                                  5              2                             6                         8                               4
 Case Number                                                    1.0            4.0                           8.3                       8.0                            8.0
 Phase Duration, s                                             11.0           57.0                          46.0                      26.0                            26.0
 Change Period, (Y+Rc), s                                       3.0            6.0                           6.0                       6.0                            6.0
 Max Allow Headway (MAH), s                                     3.1            3.2                           3.2                       3.2                            3.2
 Queue Clearance Time (gs), s                                   2.4           11.9                          10.8                      10.5                            4.5
 Green Extension Time (ge), s                                   0.0            1.5                           1.5                       0.3                            0.4
 Phase Call Probability                                        1.00           1.00                          1.00                      1.00                            1.00
 Max Out Probability                                           0.01           0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00

 Movement Group Results                                                 EB                           WB                         NB                              SB
 Approach Movement                                            L         T       R           L         T       R        L        T       R              L        T       R
 Assigned Movement                                            5         2       12          1         6       16       3        8       18             7         4      14
 Adjusted Flow Rate (v), veh/h                               23        413                           326                       183                              64
 Adjusted Saturation Flow Rate (s), veh/h/ln               1774       1746                          1917                      1474                            1699
 Queue Service Time (gs), s                                 0.4        9.9                           0.0                       6.0                             0.0
 Cycle Queue Clearance Time (gc), s                         0.4        9.9                           8.8                       8.5                             2.5
 Green Ratio (g/C)                                          0.60      0.61                          0.48                      0.24                            0.24
 Capacity (c), veh/h                                        652       1073                           968                       436                             456
 Volume-to-Capacity Ratio (X)                              0.036      0.385                         0.337                     0.420                           0.141
 Available Capacity (ca), veh/h                             652       1073                           968                       436                             456
 Back of Queue (Q), veh/ln (95th percentile)                0.3        5.7                           6.3                       5.4                             1.7
 Queue Storage Ratio (RQ) (95th percentile)                 0.12      0.00                          0.00                      0.00                            0.00
 Uniform Delay (d1), s/veh                                  7.4        8.1                          13.4                      26.9                            24.8
 Incremental Delay (d2), s/veh                              0.0        0.1                           0.1                       0.2                             0.1
 Initial Queue Delay (d3), s/veh                            0.0        0.0                           0.0                       0.0                             0.0
 Control Delay (d), s/veh                                   7.4        8.2                          13.5                      27.2                            24.9
 Level of Service (LOS)                                      A          A                             B                         C                               C
 Approach Delay, s/veh / LOS                                   8.1             A             13.5            B         27.2            C               24.9            C
 Intersection Delay, s/veh / LOS                                                     14.4                                                          B

 Multimodal Results                                                    EB                            WB                        NB                              SB
 Pedestrian LOS Score / LOS                                    2.1             B             2.1             B         2.1             B               2.3             B
 Bicycle LOS Score / LOS                                       1.2             A             1.0             A         0.8             A               0.6             A
Copyright  2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved.                   HCS 2010TM Streets Version 6.50                        Generated: 10/4/2013 2:04:48 PM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection                LAUREL @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013            Analysis Year               2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM EXISTING
Project Description AM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: LAUREL AVE                       North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: East-West                Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     1                    2             3                   4             5                    6
                                             L                    T             R                   L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              9                   238                                             136                   2
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           1.00                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             9                   250            0                   0            143                   2
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --            --                  0             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      7                    8            9                   10            11                  12
                                              L                    T            R                    L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       4                                5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                   4                0                 5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach                Eastbound      Westbound                                     Northbound                          Southbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8               9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   9                                                                                                 9
C (m) (veh/h)             1437                                                                                               732
v/c                       0.01                                                                                              0.01
95% queue length          0.02                                                                                              0.04
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.5                                                                                              10.0
LOS                         A                                                                                                 A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --             --                                                                               10.0
Approach LOS                --             --                                                                                A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:10 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection               LAUREL @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013             Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM TOTAL
Project Description AM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: LAUREL AVE                       North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: East-West                Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     1                    2             3                   4             5                    6
                                             L                    T             R                   L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              9                   245                                             140                   3
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           1.00                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             9                   257            0                   0            147                   3
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --            --                  0             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      7                    8            9                   10            11                  12
                                              L                    T            R                    L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                      10                                7
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                  10                0                 7
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach                Eastbound      Westbound                                     Northbound                          Southbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8               9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   9                                                                                                 17
C (m) (veh/h)             1431                                                                                               682
v/c                       0.01                                                                                              0.02
95% queue length          0.02                                                                                              0.08
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.5                                                                                              10.4
LOS                         A                                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --             --                                                                               10.4
Approach LOS                --             --                                                                                B
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:11 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection                LAUREL @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013            Analysis Year               2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM EXISTING
Project Description PM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: LAUREL AVE                       North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: East-West                Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     1                    2             3                   4             5                    6
                                             L                    T             R                   L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              8                   186                                             291                   9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           1.00                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             8                   195            0                   0            306                   9
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --            --                  0             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      7                    8            9                   10            11                  12
                                              L                    T            R                    L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       9                                9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                   9                0                 9
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach                Eastbound      Westbound                                     Northbound                          Southbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8               9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   8                                                                                                 18
C (m) (veh/h)             1245                                                                                               603
v/c                       0.01                                                                                              0.03
95% queue length          0.02                                                                                              0.09
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.9                                                                                              11.2
LOS                         A                                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --             --                                                                               11.2
Approach LOS                --             --                                                                                B
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:13 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection               LAUREL @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013             Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM TOTAL
Project Description PM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: LAUREL AVE                       North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: East-West                Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     1                    2             3                   4             5                    6
                                             L                    T             R                   L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              11                  192                                             300                   13
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           1.00                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            11                   202            0                   0            315                  13
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    --            --                  0             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      7                    8            9                   10            11                  12
                                              L                    T            R                    L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                      11                                9
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                  11                0                 9
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach                Eastbound      Westbound                                     Northbound                          Southbound
Movement                    1              4                               7              8               9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                  11                                                                                                 20
C (m) (veh/h)             1232                                                                                               576
v/c                       0.01                                                                                              0.03
95% queue length          0.03                                                                                              0.11
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.9                                                                                              11.5
LOS                         A                                                                                                 B
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --             --                                                                               11.5
Approach LOS                --             --                                                                                B
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:14 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection               HICKORY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/30/2013            Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM EXISTING
Project Description AM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: ALLEY                            North/South Street: HICKORY ST
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      1                    2             3                   4             5                   6
                                              L                    T             R                   L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                    30             2                   9            24
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                  0.95          0.95                0.95          0.95                1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                   31             2                   9            25                    0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                  LT
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8             9                   10           11                   12
                                              L                   T             R                    L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       1                                5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                   1                0                 5
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration                         LT                                           LR
v (veh/h)                                   9                                            6
C (m) (veh/h)                             1579                                         1020
v/c                                       0.01                                         0.01
95% queue length                          0.02                                         0.02
Control Delay (s/veh)                      7.3                                          8.6
LOS                                         A                                            A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                          8.6
Approach LOS                --              --                                           A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:40 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection              HICKORY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/30/2013             Analysis Year             2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM TOTAL
Project Description AM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: ALLEY                            North/South Street: HICKORY ST
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      1                    2             3                   4             5                   6
                                              L                    T             R                   L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                    31             6                   9            25
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                  0.95          0.95                0.95          0.95                1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                   32             6                   9            26                    0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                  LT
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8             9                   10           11                   12
                                              L                   T             R                    L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                      16                                6
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                  16                0                 6
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration                         LT                                           LR
v (veh/h)                                   9                                           22
C (m) (veh/h)                             1572                                         949
v/c                                       0.01                                         0.02
95% queue length                          0.02                                         0.07
Control Delay (s/veh)                      7.3                                          8.9
LOS                                         A                                            A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                          8.9
Approach LOS                --              --                                           A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:45 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection               HICKORY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/30/2013            Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM EXISTING
Project Description PM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: ALLEY                            North/South Street: HICKORY ST
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      1                    2             3                   4             5                   6
                                              L                    T             R                   L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                    40             8                   1            47
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                  0.95          0.95                0.95          0.95                1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                   42             8                   1            49                    0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                  LT
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8             9                   10           11                   12
                                              L                   T             R                    L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                       6                                18
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                   6                0                18
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration                         LT                                           LR
v (veh/h)                                   1                                           24
C (m) (veh/h)                             1557                                         990
v/c                                       0.00                                         0.02
95% queue length                          0.00                                         0.07
Control Delay (s/veh)                      7.3                                          8.7
LOS                                         A                                            A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                          8.7
Approach LOS                --              --                                           A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:43 AM
                                                  TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                              Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection              HICKORY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/30/2013             Analysis Year             2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM TOTAL
Project Description PM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: ALLEY                            North/South Street: HICKORY ST
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                      1                    2             3                   4             5                   6
                                              L                    T             R                   L             T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                                                    41            17                   2            48
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                  0.95          0.95                0.95          0.95                1.00
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                   43            17                   2            50                    0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                                                                  TR                  LT
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                      7                   8             9                   10           11                   12
                                              L                   T             R                    L            T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                                                                                      12                                19
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      1.00                 1.00           1.00                0.95         1.00                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             0                    0             0                  12                0                20
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    0             0                   2             0                    2
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Configuration                                                                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10           11             12
Lane Configuration                         LT                                           LR
v (veh/h)                                   2                                           32
C (m) (veh/h)                             1544                                         965
v/c                                       0.00                                         0.03
95% queue length                          0.00                                         0.10
Control Delay (s/veh)                      7.3                                          8.9
LOS                                         A                                            A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                          8.9
Approach LOS                --              --                                           A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:46 AM
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection                ALLEY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013            Analysis Year               2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM EXISTING
Project Description AM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: E/W ALLEY                        North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                   4              5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                   L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                      7                                              7                   2
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          1.00                0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    7             0                   0                7                 2
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                  10           11                    12
                                             L                    T              R                  L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                                    4
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0             4                   0                0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0                0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   1                                                                                                 5
C (m) (veh/h)             1624                                                                                             1063
v/c                       0.00                                                                                              0.00
95% queue length          0.00                                                                                              0.01
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.2                                                                                               8.4
LOS                         A                                                                                                 A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                                                              8.4
Approach LOS                --              --                                                                               A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:18 AM
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection               ALLEY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013             Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         AM TOTAL
Project Description AM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: E/W ALLEY                        North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                   4              5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                   L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              2                      7                                              7                   2
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          1.00                0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             2                    7             0                   0                7                 2
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                  10           11                    12
                                             L                    T              R                  L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              1                                   12
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             1                    0            12                   0                0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0                0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   2                                                                                                13
C (m) (veh/h)             1624                                                                                             1073
v/c                       0.00                                                                                              0.01
95% queue length          0.00                                                                                              0.04
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.2                                                                                               8.4
LOS                         A                                                                                                 A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                                                              8.4
Approach LOS                --              --                                                                               A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:25 AM
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                  Intersection                ALLEY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                  Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013            Analysis Year               2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM EXISTING
Project Description PM EXISTING - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: E/W ALLEY                        North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                   4              5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                   L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              3                      9                                              2                   10
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          1.00                0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             3                    9             0                   0                2                10
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                  10           11                    12
                                             L                    T              R                  L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                                    3
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0             3                   0                0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0                0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                   3                                                                                                 8
C (m) (veh/h)             1620                                                                                             1024
v/c                       0.00                                                                                              0.01
95% queue length          0.01                                                                                              0.02
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.2                                                                                               8.5
LOS                         A                                                                                                 A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                                                              8.5
Approach LOS                --              --                                                                               A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:24 AM
                                                 TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL SUMMARY
General Information                                             Site Information
 Analyst                      ALL                   Intersection               ALLEY @ ALLEY
 Agency/Co.                   GHA                   Jurisdiction
 Date Performed               9/26/2013             Analysis Year              2013
 Analysis Time Period         PM TOTAL
Project Description PM TOTAL - LAUREL COURT PHASE II
East/West Street: E/W ALLEY                        North/South Street: N/S ALLEY
Intersection Orientation: North-South              Study Period (hrs): 0.25
Vehicle Volumes and Adjustments
Major Street                                                  Northbound                                      Southbound
Movement                                     1                     2            3                   4              5                   6
                                             L                     T            R                   L              T                   R
Volume (veh/h)                              10                     9                                              2                   10
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                  0.95          1.00                0.95          0.95                0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                            10                    9             0                   0                2                10
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       0                    --            --                  2             --                   --
Median Type                                                                            Undivided
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    1             0                   0                1                 0
Configuration                               LT                                                                                        TR
Upstream Signal                                                   0                                                  0
Minor Street                                                  Eastbound                                       Westbound
Movement                                     7                    8              9                  10           11                    12
                                             L                    T              R                  L             T                    R
Volume (veh/h)                              5                                    5
Peak-Hour Factor, PHF                      0.95                 0.95           0.95                1.00         0.95                 0.95
Hourly Flow Rate, HFR
                                             5                    0             5                   0                0                 0
(veh/h)
Percent Heavy Vehicles                       2                    0             0                   0             0                    0
Percent Grade (%)                                                  0                                              0
Flared Approach                                                   N                                               N
  Storage                                                         0                                               0
RT Channelized                                                                  0                                                      0
Lanes                                        0                    0             0                   0                0                 0
Configuration                                                    LR
Delay, Queue Length, and Level of Service
Approach               Northbound      Southbound                                    Westbound                           Eastbound
Movement                    1               4                              7             8                9     10            11            12
Lane Configuration         LT                                                                                                LR
v (veh/h)                  10                                                                                                10
C (m) (veh/h)             1620                                                                                             1023
v/c                       0.01                                                                                              0.01
95% queue length          0.02                                                                                              0.03
Control Delay (s/veh)      7.2                                                                                               8.6
LOS                         A                                                                                                 A
Approach Delay (s/veh)      --              --                                                                              8.6
Approach LOS                --              --                                                                               A
Copyright  2010 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                          HCS+TM Version 5.6              Generated: 9/30/2013   8:26 AM
                               PUBLIC WORKS
                               MEMORANDUM


DATE:          November 12, 2013

TO:            Lee Smith, Senior Planner

FROM:          John Welch, City Engineer

SUBJECT:       Laurel Court Phases 1 and 2 Development (807-833 Laurel Avenue)

Comments regarding the plan for the proposed Laurel Court Phases 1 and 2, dated September 16,
2013, are as follow:

The engineer must submit a calculation of the existing and proposed impervious areas for this
development. Insofar as the developer is the same that developed the contiguous property to the
west, that property must be included in the impervious area calculation. Stormwater detention is
required, for both developments, if the total impervious area created by both developments
exceeds 16,000 square feet (Watershed Development Ordinance, Article IV, Section A.6).

The proposed development is tributary to the Central Avenue sanitary sewer. The engineer must
submit a calculation of the existing capacity of the Central Avenue sanitary sewer, between
Elmwood Drive and Beverly Place, in order to determine if it has sufficient capacity to serve the
proposed development, and existing load without surcharging.

The proposed plan includes a parallel parking bay on Laurel Avenue. On-street parking is
prohibited between 819 Laurel Avenue and Hickory Street. The proposed parking bay will
eliminate the existing parkway, including existing lawn and trees, and is not deemed necessary
by the Department of Public Works. The proposed parking bay will interfere with snow removal.

Section 151.008(B)(7) of the Highland Park Code requires that overhead utility lines adjacent to
the development be buried. There are two existing poles in the alley north of the development.
There is an existing pole near Hickory Street that was not required to be removed during the
construction of that development, and should be reviewed in conjunction with the adjacent
burial.

Contact me with any comments or concerns.




c:      Ramesh Kanapareddy, Director of Public Works
        William Stewart, Deputy Director of Public Works
