Volume 2 of 2 | Appendices
L is t   of   A ppen dic e s


APPENDIX A            Planning Process
APPENDIX B            Geological Reconnaissance Survey
APPENDIX C            Aquatic Resource Survey
APPENDIX D            Flora and Fauna Survey
APPENDIX E            Archaeological Inventory Survey
APPENDIX F            Archaeological Inventory Survey Acceptance Letter
APPENDIX G            Data Recovery Plan and Preservation Plan
APPENDIX H            Data Recovery Plan and Preservation Plan Acceptance Letter
APPENDIX I            Cultural Assessment Impact
APPENDIX J            Traffic Impact Analysis Report
APPENDIX J-1          Traffic Impact Analysis Report - Addendum 1
APPENDIX K            Noise Study
APPENDIX L            Air Quality Study
APPENDIX M            Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
APPENDIX N            Preliminary Engineering and Drainage Report
APPENDIX O            Market Study
APPENDIX P            Assessment of Economic and Fiscal Impacts
APPENDIX Q            Solid Waste Management Plan
APPENDIX R            Zoning and Flood Confirmation Form
A ppendi x A: P lann ing P roc ess
A ppen di x B: G eo lo gi cal R ec o n n aiss an c e S urvey
                                    GEOLOGICAL RECONNAISSANCE
                                            WAIALE DEVELOPMENT
                                            KAHULUI, MAUI, HAWAII

                                       W.O. 6438-00            APRIL 13, 2011


                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                       Page

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................................ ii

1.       GENERAL ............................................................................................................ 1
         1.1 Introduction ................................................................................................ 1
         1.2 Project Considerations............................................................................... 1
         1.3 Purpose and Scope ................................................................................... 1

2.       SITE CHARACTERIZATION................................................................................ 3
         2.1   Regional Geology ...................................................................................... 3
               2.1.1 Dune Morphology ........................................................................... 5
         2.2   Lithification................................................................................................. 5

3.       DISCUSSSION..................................................................................................... 7
         3.1  Geological Reconnaissance ...................................................................... 7
              3.1.1 Dune Structures ............................................................................. 7
              3.1.2 Obliterated Areas ........................................................................... 7
              3.1.3 Heavily Impacted Areas ................................................................. 8
         3.2  Summary ................................................................................................... 8

4.       LIMITATIONS....................................................................................................... 9

CLOSURE..................................................................................................................... 10

PLATES
     Project Location Map .................................................................................. Plate 1
     Generalized Geologic Map .......................................................................... Plate 2
     Photographs ................................................................................... Plates 3 and 4




W.O. 6438-00                                       GEOLABS, INC.                                                     Page i
                                                    Hawaii  California
                          GEOLOGICAL RECONNAISSANCE
                                WAIALE DEVELOPMENT
                                KAHULUI, MAUI, HAWAII

                             W.O. 6438-00      APRIL 13, 2011


                                 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


       An on-ground field reconnaissance survey and geological mapping of the project
site was conducted by two geologists from our Maui office. Locations in the field were
established using features shown on the topographic survey map and a hand-held Global
Positioning System (GPS) receiver.

       The mapping included in-situ dune structures and areas where the original dunes
had been obliterated, heavily impacted or degraded. The locations of these structures and
areas are presented on the Generalized Geologic Map, Plate 2.

      During the course of our field reconnaissance, we did not find natural lithified
sand dunes that could be considered to be pristine geological features. The majority of
the dunes within the project limits have essentially been obliterated by human activities.

        In the southern part of the site, south of Waiko Road, the former dune lands were
flattened and tilled for the cultivation of sugar cane. The north central portion of the site
includes some small clusters of dunes. However, these dune clusters have been
degraded by longstanding ranching activities and other agricultural use. The north
western portion of the site has been heavily disturbed by sand mining, stockpiling and
agricultural use. However, this area also includes the larger and comparatively more
representative examples of the remaining dune structures within the site.



                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY




W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                   Page ii
                                      Hawaii  California
                                 SECTION 1. GENERAL


1.1    Introduction
       This geological reconnaissance report presents the findings and conclusions
from our field reconnaissance survey of the proposed Waiale Development area in the
central portion of Maui, to the south of the town of Kahului on the Island of Maui, Hawaii.
The project location and general vicinity are shown on the Project Location Map,
Plate 1.

       This report summarizes the findings from our literature search and field
reconnaissance survey and presents our conclusions. The findings and conclusions
presented herein are subject to the limitations noted at the end of this report.

1.2    Project Considerations
       The proposed project involves a master plan development on about 545 acres
located along the western side of Kuihelani Highway, on both the northern and southern
sides of Waiko Road.

       The general area is mapped from a geology perspective as consolidated
calcareous dunes, which are sand blown inland from ancient beaches and later lithified
(Stearns, et. al). However, much of the site has been disturbed due to past human
activities, including agricultural and industrial use. Therefore, currently the extent of
natural lithified sand dunes on the site may be limited.

       A geological reconnaissance was performed by geologists from our Maui office to
identify and map the location of natural lithified sand dunes remaining at the project site.
The topographic survey previously done was used as a base map. Additionally, the
project surveyor assisted our geologists to locate reference points within the site.

1.3    Purpose and Scope
       The purpose of our geological reconnaissance was to obtain an overview of the
surface conditions at the project site to develop a generalized soil/rock data set to
formulate geotechnical findings and conclusions concerning the extent and condition of




W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                     Page 1
                                      Hawaii  California
SECTION 1. GENERAL


natural lithified sand dunes within the project site. The scope of our work included the
following tasks and work efforts:


       1.     Research of available literature pertaining to the geology of the site and
              surrounding region.

       2.     Conducting an on-ground field reconnaissance of the site by two geologists
              from our Maui office.

       3.     Conducting geological and engineering analyses of the field and literature
              data to formulate our findings and conclusions.

       4.     Preparing this report which summarizes our work on the project and
              presents our findings and conclusions.

       5.     Coordinating our overall work on the project by our engineer.

       6.     Quality assurance of our work and client/design team consultation by our
              principal engineer.

       7.     Miscellaneous work efforts such as drafting, word processing, and clerical
              support.


                                    END OF GENERAL




W.O. 6438-00                        GEOLABS, INC.                               Page 2
                                     Hawaii  California
                       SECTION 2. SITE CHARACTERIZATION


2.1      Regional Geology
         The Island of Maui was built by two major volcanoes, the older West Maui
(Tertiary Epoch) and the more recent East Maui, also known as Haleakala (Pleistocene
Epoch). The Isthmus of Maui is a narrow, gently sloping plain located between these
two volcanoes. The project site is located in the western area of this gently sloping
plain.

         The Isthmus of Maui was created by lava flows from East Maui (Haleakala)
banking against the older flank of West Maui. Stratigraphy in the isthmus is complicated
due to the multitude of erosional and depositional forces that have played roles in its
creation.   Much of the eastern and western sides of the isthmus are comprised of
alluvium washed from the slopes of West Maui and Haleakala.              The erosional
processes in the slopes above the isthmus are dominated by the detachment of soil and
rock masses from the mountain walls, and the soil materials are transported downslope
toward the Isthmus primarily by gravity as colluvium.

         Once these materials reach the stream or other natural drainage course, the
alluvial process becomes dominant, and the sediments are transported and deposited
as alluvium. In general, stream flows in Hawaii are intermittent and flashy, i.e., the
stream flows transmit large volumes of water for very short durations. Because of this,
the transport of sediments is intermittent, and the bulk of the stream's hydraulic load
consists of a poorly-sorted mixture of boulders, cobbles, gravel, sands, and fines.
When the erosional base levels change, these sediment loads are left as deposits.

         When deposits are left in-place for long periods of time, chemical processes
begin to alter the materials, simultaneously causing a breakdown or weathering of the
materials. Chemical processes also cause induration, or cementation, of the
coarse-grained portion of the sediment into a poorly-consolidated sedimentary rock or
conglomerate. Simultaneously, erosion continues in the areas above the valley floors
and upstream in headwaters.      This continued erosion generates material, which is
transported downslope covering the older alluvial deposits. Depending on the local


W.O. 6438-00                        GEOLABS, INC.                               Page 3
                                    Hawaii  California
SECTION 2. SITE CHARACTERIZATION


base level and rate of transport, these newer sediments are generally transient in terms
of geologic time. In addition, their consistency and density are generally less than those
of the older, partially consolidated deposits.

         Underlying the alluvial deposits are overlapping lavas from the West Maui and
East Maui volcanoes.       The bulk of the Haleakala shield was built during the late
Pliocene and early Pleistocene Epoch by thinly bedded basaltic lava flows of the
Honomanu Volcanic Series. During the Pleistocene Epoch, the characteristics of the
lavas changed to very hard, thickly bedded flows of andesitic composition. These lavas
have been grouped as the Kula Volcanic Series.

         Further complicating the stratigraphy of the isthmus was the development of
broad fringing reefs in the bay formed at the juncture between West Maui and East
Maui; and, glacio-eustatic sea level changes that occurred during the Pleistocene
Epoch in response to the advance and retreat cycles of continental glaciation. During
the glacial advances, water was bound into the wide spread glaciers as ice on a year
round basis and less water was available to fill the ocean basins. As a consequence,
global sea levels fell below the current sea level. During the retreats, more water was
available and sea levels rose.

         When the sea levels fell, the fringing reefs, with their complement of calcium
carbonate sand derived from both detrital and bioclastic sources, were exposed to the
prevailing tradewinds which blew in about the same direction as the current tradewinds
but were estimated to have an average velocity of about 60 miles per hour. These
winds, transporting the loose sand from the reef areas, resulted in a strip of sand dunes
that extended from the present Wailuku-Kahului area to as far as the south coast of the
Maui Isthmus, blanketing the volcanic and alluvial deposits on the floor of the isthmus.

         Similar dune formations can be found on the northwest portion of Molokai, in the
Kahuku-Laie and Waimanalo areas on the Island of Oahu and the Kekaha-Mana area of
Kauai.




W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                 Page 4
                                      Hawaii  California
SECTION 2. SITE CHARACTERIZATION


      2.1.1 Dune Morphology
      Three things are required for dune formation to occur: a large supply of sand, wind
      speeds capable of moving it, and an ideal location for its accumulation. Once sand
      begins to pile up, ripples and dunes can form. Wind continues to move sand up to
      the top of the pile until the pile is so steep that it collapses under its own weight.
      The collapsing sand comes to rest when it reaches just the right steepness to keep
      the dune stable.

      The repeating cycle of sand inching up the windward side to the dune crest, then
      slipping down the dune's slip face allows the dune to inch forward, migrating in the
      direction the wind blows. This creates an internal structure called cross-bedding.

      Due to the nearly constant high velocity prevailing winds, the Isthmus dunes formed
      as longitudinal dunes, i.e., the axes of the dune ridges were parallel to the wind
      direction rather than normal to the wind direction as in typical crescent dunes.

      As a result of gravitational sorting during wind transport of the sand, the average
      size of the sand grains in the dunes decreases with increasing distance from the
      source of the sand. Similarly, the height, and thickness, of the dunes decrease with
      distance. In the Wailuku-Kahului area, the sand grains tend to be relatively coarse;
      and, the dunes are relatively high. As the dunes approach Maalaea, the grains
      become very fine and become intermixed with wind blown alluvial silt; and the
      dunes are often a thin veneer over underlying alluvial and residual soils.

2.2   Lithification
      As rain falls through the atmosphere, the water reacts with carbon dioxide, sulfur
compounds and nitrogen compounds in the air to form a weakly acidic solution of
carbonic, sulfuric and nitric acids. When this solution comes in contact with carbonate
materials, such as calcium carbonate sand, the acid will dissolve a portion of the
material and carry it away in solution. As the reaction continues, the pH of the solution
increases and when it reaches neutral, the carbonate will precipitate out of the solution,
leaving behind carbonate to act as a cement between grains.




W.O. 6438-00                        GEOLABS, INC.                                    Page 5
                                     Hawaii  California
SECTION 2. SITE CHARACTERIZATION


       The Isthmus dunes have been described as "lithified dunes", i.e., dunes that
have been consolidated by cementation to form calcareous sandstone.                     More
appropriately, the dunes should be described as "partially lithified dunes".      In general,
the cementation found in the dunes is relatively weak and tends to vary with grain size
and local rainfall. In the Kahului area, where the sand is coarser and local rainfall is
about 20 inches per year, the degree of cementation is higher and is of greater extent.
In the Waikapu-Waiale area, where rainfall is less than about 15 inches per year and
the sand grains are finer, lithification is less pronounced, often limited to a "crust" on the
surface.

       Much better examples of lithified dunes on Maui are found at Keoupuolani
Regional Park, which has some of the most pristine remnant dunes on Maui;
Haleki`i-Pihana Heiau State Monument; and, the Dunes at Maui Lani Golf Course.
Good dune examples elsewhere in Hawaii are the Kahuku area of the north shore of
Oahu, Waimanalo on Oahu; and, to an extent, in the northwest part of the Island of
Molokai.


                              END OF SITE CHARACTERIZATION




W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                    Page 6
                                      Hawaii  California
                              SECTION 3. DISCUSSSION


3.1   Geological Reconnaissance
      An on-ground reconnaissance of the                  project site was conducted by
two geologists from our Maui office. The fieldwork occurred between February 10 and
March 10, 2011. Locations in the field were established using features shown on the
topographic survey map and a hand-held Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver.
Following the field mapping, features were plotted on the base topographic plan which
was then superimposed on the most recent aerial photograph of the site and
surrounding area.

      The mapping included in-situ dune structures and areas where the original dunes
had been obliterated, heavily impacted or degraded. The locations of these structures
and areas are presented on the Generalized Geologic Map, Plate 2. The following
sections describe the structures and areas.

      3.1.1 Dune Structures
      These mapping units represent areas where there are recognizable dunes. In
      general, these dunes retain their original form but have been degraded by their use
      for ranching, agricultural use and other human activities. They are predominantly
      covered with non-native and invasive vegetation, such as buffelgrass (Cenchrus
      ciliaris), haole koa (Leucaena leucocephala) and kiawe (Prosopis pallida).       These
      plants are commonly used as forage for livestock; and, the trampling by cattle and
      horses degrades the surface of the dunes.

      Our field reconnaissance and mapping disclosed two clusters of dune structures in
      the north central portion of the site. Due to past agricultural activities, the clusters
      have been designated as "degraded areas".

      3.1.2 Obliterated Areas
      These mapping units represent those areas where the original sand dunes have
      been removed, graded, tilled or otherwise obliterated by human activities, such as
      large scale agriculture, sand mining operations and other activities. This includes
      the areas south of Waiko Road, and the northeastern and northwestern portions of

W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                    Page 7
                                     Hawaii  California
SECTION 3. DISCUSSION


       the site. While the northwestern portion of the site has been heavily impacted by
       human activity, it also contains the larger remaining dunes. The approximate limits
       of sand mining operations are shown on the Generalized Geologic Map, Plate 2.

       3.1.3 Heavily Impacted Areas
       These mapping areas represent the portions of the site which have been impacted
       from longstanding ranching and other agricultural activities. This includes the north
       central portion of the site. There are some remnant dunes. However, the remnant
       dunes are smaller and largely degraded from ranching and other human activities.

3.2    Summary
       During the course of our field reconnaissance, we did not find natural sand dunes
that could be considered to be pristine geological features. The majority of the dunes
within the project limits have essentially been obliterated by human activities.

       In the southern part of the site, south of Waiko Road, the former dune lands were
flattened and tilled for the cultivation of sugar cane. The north central portion of the site
includes some small clusters of dunes.         However, these dune clusters have been
degraded by longstanding ranching activities and other agricultural use.           The north
western portion of the site has been heavily disturbed by sand mining, stockpiling and
agricultural use. However, this area also includes the larger and comparatively more
representative examples of the remaining dune structures within the site.

       Much better examples of lithified dunes on Maui are found at Keoupuolani
Regional Park, which has some of the most pristine remnant dunes on Maui;
Haleki`i-Pihana Heiau State Monument; and, the Dunes at Maui Lani Golf Course.
Good dune examples elsewhere in Hawaii are the Kahuku area of the north shore of
Oahu, Waimanalo on Oahu; and, to an extent, in the northwest part of the island of
Molokai.


                                    END OF DISCUSSION




W.O. 6438-00                         GEOLABS, INC.                                   Page 8
                                      Hawaii  California
                              SECTION 4. LIMITATIONS



        The discussions submitted herein are based, in part, upon information obtained
from in-house literature research and our field exploration. Variations of conditions may
occur in localized areas.

        The locations indicated in this report are approximate, having been referenced
from features shown on the topographic survey map and aerial photo. The physical
locations should be considered accurate only to the degree implied by the methods
used.

        This report has been prepared for the exclusive use of A&B Properties, Inc. for
specific application to the proposed "Waiale Development" project in accordance with
generally accepted geotechnical engineering principles and practices. No warranty is
expressed or implied.

        This geological reconnaissance conducted at the project site was not intended to
investigate the potential presence of hazardous materials existing at the site. It should
be noted that the equipment, techniques, and personnel used to conduct a
geo-environmental exploration differ substantially from those applied in geotechnical
engineering and engineering geology.



                                   END OF LIMITATIONS




W.O. 6438-00                        GEOLABS, INC.                                Page 9
                                     Hawaii  California
                                Waiale Development
                                Kahului, Maui, Hawaii




               Photograph 1: Dune Structures - Northwest Preserve Area




               Photograph 2: Heavily Impacted Area ­ North Central Area




W.O. 6438-00                       GEOLABS, INC.              APRIL 2011   PLATE 3
                                   Hawaii  California
                           Waiale Development
                           Kahului, Maui, Hawaii




                 Photograph 3: Dune Structure cut by road




               Photograph 4: Heavily Impacted Dune Structure

W.O. 6438-00                 GEOLABS, INC.              APRIL 2011   PLATE 4
                              Hawaii  California
                               Waiale Development
                               Kahului, Maui, Hawaii




  Photograph 5: Area obliterated by sand mining with impacted dunes in background




W.O. 6438-00                     GEOLABS, INC.              APRIL 2011    PLATE 5
                                  Hawaii  California
A ppendi x C: A q uatic R esourc e S urvey
                                   AQUATIC RESOURCE SURVEY

                                                    for the

                                           WAI'ALE PROJECT

                           WAIKAPU AND WAILUKU, MAUI, HAWAII



                                              INTRODUCTION

    The Wai'ale Project is situated on 545 acres of land in Waikapu and Wailuku in central Maui,
TMK's (2) 3-8-05:23 (por.) & 37, and TMKs (2) 3-8-07:71, 101 (por.) & 104 (see Figure 1). The northern
boundary is adjacent to the Maui Lani Project, the western boundary is adjacent to light industrial uses,
agricultural uses and near Waikapu Stream, and the eastern boundary is adjacent to Kuihelani Highway (see
Figure 1). This aquatic resource survey was initiated in compliance with environmental requirements of the
planning process. Its purpose was to determine if there were any wetlands or other aquatic resources that might
fall under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under provisions of the Clean Water Act (1973
and as amended).


                                             SITE DESCRIPTION

   The property consists of gently sloping lands of Maui's central valley. Soils are characterized as Puu One
Sand (PZUE) and Jaucus Sand (JaC) series (Foote et al, 1972). Puu One Sand, 7-30% slopes is an excessively
drained, light brownish, loose sandy soil averaging 20 inches deep over a strongly cemented sand layer that is
20 to 40 inches deep. Jaucus Sand, 0 ­ 15 % slope is an excessively drained calcareous soil formed by wind
deposition of coral sand and seashells into low, loose grained dunes. This soil is a mixture of sand and small
amounts of silt and organic matter creating a pale brown color. It is more than 60 inches deep. Vegetation
varied considerably over this large project area. The largest area was a savannah dominated by buffelgrass
(Cenchrus ciliaris) and kiawe trees (Prosopis pallida). The former sugar cane agricultural lands were a very
diverse array of weedy species including golden crown-beard (Verbesina encelioides), buffelgrass, Guinea grass
(Megathyrsus maximus), Castor bean (Ricinus communis), swollen fingergrass (Chloris barbata), koa haole
(Leucaena leucocephala) and spiny amaranth (Amaranthus spinosus). The sand excavation areas were very
sparsely vegetated with small crownflower (Calotropis procera), `uhaloa (Waltheria indica), tree tobacco
(Nicotiana glauca), buffelgrass, fuzzy rattlepod (Crotalaria incana), `ilima (Sida fallax) and sourbush (Pluchea
carolinensis). Rainfall in this area averages 20 inches per year with most falling during the winter months, but
then followed by a long dry season (Armstrong, 1983). The only stream which flows near this project is
Waikapu Stream, which is a perennial stream that issues from a wet windward valley in the southern West Maui
Mountains and flows down to Kealia Pond and to the leeward coast of central Maui. Waikapu Stream flows
along but just outside the southwest boundary of this project for about a mile between Waiko Road and
Kuihelani Highway.




                                                                                                              1
                                                SITE HISTORY

    Maui is an island of two mountains that are connected by a low isthmus. Prevailing northeast trade winds
striking the windward side of central Maui speed up as they squeeze through the isthmus between these two
mountains. On the West Maui side these northeast winds careen off the mountains slopes and are accelerated in
a southward direction across the slopes toward Maalaea. Over many millennia these strong winds have driven
great amounts of coral sand inland creating great fields of dunes that extend about five miles across the isthmus.
These dunes have deeply buried the alluvial soils that were deposited across the eastern flank of the mountain
over the past million years (Stearns, 1985). These dunes entrain with the direction of the prevailing wind and
lie perpendicular to the slope of the land. For a long period of history these dunes remained relatively free of
dense vegetation and were constantly shifting and being driven by the wind.

   In the mid-1800s kiawe trees were introduced to Hawaii from the coastal deserts of northern Chile and these
trees thrived in our dry lowlands. They quickly spread throughout the central Maui isthmus and their roots
began to stabilize the dunes. Then dryland grasses and shrubs began to fill in between the kiawe.

   These dune lands were considered to be marginal to useless for agriculture but some of the flatter areas were
improved by spreading bagasse on the sand to improve its organic content. In this way about 130 acres of this
project was gradually brought into cultivation. This acreage has since been abandoned and now stands idle.

    Another agricultural practice that was used in the early to mid-1900s to prevent stream flooding damage in
fields was to create berms of boulders and soil along stream banks to better channelize storm flows. Waikapu
Stream, which is adjacent to the southwest boundary of this project, has a 4 to 6 foot high berm that dates from
this former time. This berm also prevents any natural drainage of runoff into the stream from the surrounding
plain.

   In recent years portions of the northwest corner of the property have been used for sand excavation work.
This has resulted in the leveling of some of the dunes to create a flat landscape. This landscape is now only
sparsely vegetated with hardy xerophytes.



              WETLANDS/WATERS OF THE U.S. ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION

   The goal of this aquatic resource survey was to utilize guidelines and methods outlined in the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual (1987) and the more recent Interim Regional Supplement to
the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Hawaii and Pacific Islands Region (2010) to determine
whether the Wai'ale Project area is a wetland for purposes of Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (1973) or
contains any other aquatic resources that would qualify as Waters of the U.S.

   Having read and considered the Introduction, the Technical Guidelines and the Characteristics and Indicators
of Hydrophytic Vegetation, Hydric Soils and Wetland Hydrology, we come to the methods.




                                                                                                                   2
                                           PART IV: METHODS

Section B. Preliminary Data Gathering and Synthesis

  The following information sources were available and were used:
      USGS Wailuku Quadrangle Map, 1: 24,000 scale, 1955
      National Wetland Inventory Mapping, USFWS, 1991 and as amended
      National List of Plant Species That Occur in Wetlands: Hawaii, USFWS, 2004
      Soil Survey, SCS / NRCS, 1972
      Aerial Photography: Google Earth, 2011 & Infra-red Series, MA 9-182, Oct.27, 1990.

  Step 1. Identifying the Project Area on a Map (see Figure 2). The USGS map does not show any
           wetlands, drainage ditches, gulches or streams. One plantation pipeline passes through the project
           underground, but surfaces into an open gunite-lined ditch that runs for about 600 feet before
           passing under Kuihelani Highway and out of the project area.

  Step 2. Prepare a Base Map (see Figure 2).

  Step 3. Determine the Size of the Project Area ­ 545 acres (see Figure 2).

  Step 4. Summarize Available Information on Vegetation. The descriptions given in the Soil Survey for each
          soil type itemize the plant species that are dominant there. The information in the Plant Database
          characterizes each native or naturalized species in Hawaii with regard to their potential to grow in
          wetland or aquatic habitats.

  Step 5. Determine Whether the Vegetation on the Project Area is Adequately Characterized. The plant
          species listed in the soil survey for each soil type sufficiently characterize each area. However, a
          complete survey of the vegetation on this project area was performed concurrently with this aquatic
          resource survey and this allowed for a complete walk-through look at the entire area. A complete
          plant species list was compiled and this information was used to acquire a more accurate and
          comprehensive understanding of the character of the vegetation.

   Step 6. Summarize Available Information on Area Soils. The SCS/NRCS Soil Survey gives a
           comprehensive account of the two soils series found in the project area.

  Step 7. Determine if Soils Have Been Adequately Characterized. Yes they have. The Puu One Sand is as
          described. There are extensive areas with loose sand layers over deeper layers of lithified sand. In
          some areas the lithified sands are exposed at the surface. The soils survey typically examined soil
          profiles to a depth of 60 inches, but in bank cuts where depths of up to 30 feet can be observed,
          profiles continue to show layers of sand with no traces of alluvial substrate. This sandy soil is
          characterized as being excessively drained which means it is quite porous and does not accumulate
          surface waters. The Jaucus Sand is also as described although the surface layer has been modified
          by decades of sugar cane farming.

  Step 8. Summarize Available Hydrology Data. There are no hydrology features or indicators on any of the
          photographs, maps, surveys or databases examined.

  Step 9. Determine if Hydrology is Adequately Characterized. The entire area appears to be as characterized.
          A complete walk-through of the project area failed to find any apparent wetland hydrology features.



                                                                                                                 3
Section C. Selection of Method

   A routine Determination method was selected because of the lack of complexity of the environment and the
relative uniformity of conditions within the parameters of vegetation, soils and hydrology.

      a. Level 1 ­ Onsite Inspection Unnecessary. Routine Determination method was further selected because
         the information already obtained is deemed sufficient for making a determination for the entire project
         area.

Section D. Routine Determination ­ Onsite Inspection Unnecessary
   Although for this Determination method, an onsite inspection is unnecessary, I had the benefit for a full flora
and fauna survey that was concurrently conducted on this same project area. I was thus able to acquire an even
better characterization of the vegetation, soils and hydrology on the property. The following are the procedures
established for conducting the analysis to come up with a wetland determination.

Step 1 ­ Determine Whether Available Data are Sufficient for the Entire Project Area.
The vegetation , soils, and the hydrology within the entire project area appear to be adequately characterized in
the Plant Data Base, the Soil Survey, the USGS Wailuku Quadrangle Map, the National Wetland Inventory
Map and aerial photography.

Step 2 ­ Determine Whether Hydrophytic Vegetation is Present.
For each of the three community types a Wetland Determination Data Form was completed. No dominant
hydrophytic vegetation was found in any of these plant communities. Both in the Dominance Test Worksheets,
and the Prevalence Index Worksheets were skewed toward Facultative Upland and Upland species.

Step 3 ­ Determine Whether Wetland Hydrology is Present.
No wetland hydrology indicators were found in any of the three plant communities in the project area. No
streams, gullies or drainages bring water into this area from outside its borders, and all rainfall quickly
percolates down through these porous soils.

Step 4 ­ Determine Whether the Soils Parameter Must be Considered.
Since no Obligate wetland plants were found in the project area and no wetland hydrology was found to occur
here, we proceed to Step 5.

Step 5 ­ Determine whether Hydric Soils are Present.
No hydric soils were found in any part of the project area. All of the soils were highly porous sand soils. No
water accumulates on the surface or within several feet of the surface. No hydric soils indicators were
identified in any part of this project.

Step 6 ­ Wetland Determination.
No positive wetland indicators were found in any of the parameters of vegetation, soils or hydrology in the three
plant communities that encompass this entire 545 acre project. These data are recorded in the three attached
Wetland Determination Data Forms. This entire Waiale Project area is found to be non-wetland in character.




                                                                                                                    4
Figure 1 ­ Project Area


                          5
Figure 2 ­ U.S.G.S. Wailuku Quadrangle Map of project area



                                                             6
                    Figure 3 ­ 1990 Infrared aerial photograph of project area
Reservoir in upper right corner has since been abandoned, is dilapidated and no longer functional.




                                                                                                     7
8
9
                 Sampling Area 1 ­Savannah of buffelgrass and kiawe




Sampling Area 1 ­ Open plain with loose sand and some exposed lithified sand at surface

                                                                                          10
11
12
Sampling Area 2 ­ Abandoned agricultural field with assortment of non-wetland weeds




Sampling Area 2 - Abandoned agricultural field with assortment of non-wetland weeds


                                                                                      13
14
15
Sampling Area 3 ­ Sand excavation site, leveled and surfaced with a thin layer of gravel
       Partially re-vegetated with upland and facultative upland plant species.




Sampling Area 3 - Sand excavation site, leveled and surfaced with a thin layer of gravel
       Partially re-vegetated with upland and facultative upland plant species.
                                                                                           16
                                           LITERATURE CITED


Aerial Photograph, 1990. Infrared Photograph MA 6-182.

Armstrong, 1983. Atlas of Hawaii, (Second Edition). University of Hawaii Press, Honolulu.

Foote et al, 1972. Soil Surveys of the Islands of Kauai, Oahu, Maui, Molokai, Lanai, State of Hawaii
                   USDA/SCS & University of Hawaii.

Stearns, Harold T. 1985. Geology of the State of Hawaii (Second Edition). Pacific Books. Palo Alto, Ca.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 1987. Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual. Washington, DC.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 2010. Interim Regional Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland
                Delineation Manual. Washington, DC.

U.S. Congress, 1973. Clean Water Act (and as amended).

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1991. National Wetland Inventory Mapping. Washington, DC.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2004. National list of Plant Species That Occur in Wetlands, Hawaii.
              Washington, DC.

U.S. Geological Survey, 1955. USGS Wailuku Quadrangle Map. 1:24,000 scale.




                                                                                                          17
A ppendi x D: F lo ra   and   F auna S urvey
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES SURVEY

             for the

      WAI'ALE PROJECT

 WAIKAPU AND WAILUKU, MAUI




               by


        Robert W. Hobdy
    Environmental Consultant
         Kokomo, Maui
          March 2011




         Prepared for:
      A & B Properties, Inc.




                1
                                BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES SURVEY
                                        Wai'ale Project


                                            INTRODUCTION

    The Wai'ale Project is situated on 545 acres of land in Waikapu and Wailuku in central Maui TMK's
(2) 3-8-005:023 (por.) & 37, and TMK's (2) 3-8-07:71, 101 (por.) & 104. The northern boundary is
adjacent to Maui Lani Project, the western boundary is adjacent to light industrial uses, agricultural uses
and along Waikapu Stream, and the eastern boundary is adjacent to Kuihelani Highway (see Figure 1).
This biological survey and assessment was initiated in compliance with environmental requirements of the
planning process.


                                          SITE DESCRIPTION

    This property consists of gently sloping lands of Maui's central valley. Elevations range from 150 feet
to 320 feet above sea level. Soils are made up of the Pu'u One Sand (PZUE) and Jaucus Sand (JaC) series
(Foote et al, 1972). Vegetation consists of abandoned sugar cane agricultural fields and open grassland
and kiawe savannah. Portions of the savannah are being grazed by cattle and horses while a smaller area
is bare sand from a former excavation project. The area is seasonally dry during the summer receiving
only about 20 inches per year (Armstrong, 1983).


                                       BIOLOGICAL HISTORY

    During pre-contact times the central Maui isthmus was vegetated with low growing, hardy native
plants that could survive among wind-blown, shifting sand dunes. Typical species included `ilima (Sida
fallax), `a'ali'i (Dodonaea viscosa), creeping naupaka (Scaevola coriacea), naio (Myoporum sandwicense),
(Bonamia menziesii) no common name, pä'ü o Hi'iaka (Jacquemontia ovalifolia subsp. sandwicensis) and
native mints (Haplostachys spp.). Over the past 200 years most of these species have become rare here or
have disappeared, primarily through the effects of agriculture, fires and grazing animals.

    Parts of this property with slightly better soil were eventually converted to sugar cane agriculture and
later small portions were temporarily used for a passion fruit farm and a turf grass operation. But the bulk
of the property has been used for livestock grazing and a small feed lot. Deer are now also common
throughout this area.

   Today, land uses include agriculture, grazing and a feed lot operation. Vegetation has been mostly
converted to aggressive non-native plant species that can withstand these disturbances.




                                                     2
                                        SURVEY OBJECTIVES

   This report summarizes the findings of a flora and fauna survey of the proposed
Wai'ale Project which was conducted in January and February 2011. This report supplements a flora and
fauna report that was conducted for the same project in April 2007.
The objectives of the survey were to:

   1. Document what plant and animal species occur on the property or may
      likely occur in the existing habitat.
   2. Document the status and abundance of each species.
   3. Determine the presence or likely occurrence of any native flora and fauna,
      particularly any that are Federally listed as Threatened or Endangered. If such
      occur, identify what features of the habitat may be essential for these species.
   4. Determine if the project area contains any special habitats which if lost or
      altered might result in a significant negative impact on the flora and fauna in
      this part of the island.
   5. Note which aspects of the proposed development pose significant concerns for
      plants or for wildlife and recommend measures that would mitigate or avoid
      these problems.


                                   BOTANICAL SURVEY REPORT


                                          SURVEY METHODS

   A walk-through botanical survey method was used following routes to ensure maximum coverage of
the many habitats in this large property. Areas most likely to harbor native or rare plants such as
undisturbed areas were more intensively examined. Notes were made on plant species, distribution and
abundance as well as terrain and substrate.


                               DESCRIPTION OF THE VEGETATION

  The vegetation of this large property is dominated by buffelgrass (Cenchrus ciliaris) which occupies
most habitats. Also common are kiawe (Prosopis pallida), golden crown-beard (Verbesina encelioides),
Guinea grass (Megathyrsus maximus) and `uhaloa (Waltheria indica).

   The old agricultural fields have sparse stands of remnant sugar cane with an assortment of weeds. The
pasture areas are primarily kiawe trees and buffelgrass. The sand excavation areas are highly disturbed
with much bare ground and hardy weeds.

   A total of 131 species of plants were recorded during the survey. Of these four were indigenous native
plants: `uhaloa (Waltheria indica), `ilima (Sida fallax), kou (Cordia subcordata) and popolo (Solanum
americanum). All four of these are wide spread and common in Hawai'i as well as in other Pacific islands.
An additional two species, niu (Cocos nucifera) and ko or sugar cane (Sacharum officinarum) are of
Polynesian origin and common.


                                                     3
                              DISCUSSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS


   The vegetation throughout the project area is dominated by a great variety of non-native plants. The
four native species and the two Polynesian introductions are all common and of no particular
environmental concern.

   No federally listed Endangered or Threatened native plant species (USFWS, 2009) were encountered
during the course of the survey. Nor were any species that are candidate for such status seen. No special
habitats or rare plant communities were seen on the property.

   As a result of these above conditions there is little of botanical concern on this property and the
proposed land use changes are not expected to have a significant negative impact on the botanical
resources in this part of Maui.

   No recommendations are deemed necessary or appropriate regarding the botanical resources on this
property.




                                                      4
                                           PLANT SPECIES LIST

   Following is a checklist of all those vascular plant species inventoried during the field studies. Plant
families are arranged alphabetically within each of two groups: Monocots and Dicots. Taxonomy and
nomenclature of the flowering plants are in accordance with Wagner et al. (1999).

For each species, the following information is provided:

1. Scientific name with author citation.

2. Common English or Hawaiian name.

3. Bio-geographical status. The following symbols are used:

   endemic = native only to the Hawaiian Islands; not naturally occurring anywhere
              else in the world.
   indigenous = native to the Hawaiian Islands and also to one or more other
                 geographic area(s).
   non-native = all those plants brought to the islands intentionally or accidentally
                after western contact.

4. Abundance of each species within the project area:

   abundant = forming a major part of the vegetation within the project area.
   common = widely scattered throughout the area or locally abundant within a
              portion of it.
   uncommon = scattered sparsely throughout the area or occurring in a few small
                  patches.
   rare = only a few isolated individuals within the project area.




                                                      5
SCIENTIFIC NAME                                    COMMON NAME             STATUS       ABUNDANCE
MONOCOTS
ALOACEAE (Aloe Family)
Aloe vera (L.) Burm. F.                            aloe                    non-native   rare
ARECACEAE (Palm Family)
Cocos nucifera L.                                  niu, coconut            Polynesian   rare
Washingtonia robusta Wendland                      Mexican, washingtonia   non-native   rare
ASPARAGACEAE (Asparagus Family)
Furcraea foetida (L.) Haw.                         Mauritius hemp          non-native   rare
Sansevieria trisfasciata Prain                     bowstring hemp          non-native   rare
CYPERACEAE (Sedge Family)
Cyperus rotundus L.                                nut sedge               non-native   rare
MUSACEAE (Banana Family)
Musa acuminata x balbisiana Colla                  banana                  non-native   rare
ORCHIDACEAE (Orchid Family)
Papilionanthe hookeriana x teres                   "Miss Joaquim" vanda    non-native   rare
POACEAE (Grass Family)
Bothriochloa pertusa (L.) A.Camus                  pitted beardgrass       non-native   rare
Brachiaria subquadripara (Trin.) Hitchc.           -------------------     non-native   rare
Cenchrus ciliaris L.                               buffelgrass             non-native   abundant
Cenchrus echinatus L.                              common sandbur          non-native   rare
Chloris barbata (L.) Sw.                           swollen fingergrass     non-native   uncommon
Chloris virgata Sw.                                feather fingergrass     non-native   uncommon
Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.                        Bermuda grass           non-native   rare
Dactyloctenium aegyptium (L.) Willd.               beach wiregrass         non-native   uncommon
Digitaria insularis (L.) Mez ex Ekman              sourgrass               non-native   uncommon
Digitaria violascens Link                          kukaepua'a              non-native   rare
Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) P. Beauv.              barnyard grass          non-native   rare
Eleusine indica (L.) Gaertn.                       wiregrass               non-native   rare
Eragrostis amabilis (L.) Wight & Arnott            Japanese lovegrass      non-native   rare
Eragrostis pectinacea (Michx) Nees                 Carolina lovegrass      non-native   uncommon
Leptochloa fusca (L.) Kunth subsp. uninervia
(K.Presl) N.Snow                                   sprangletop             non-native   rare
Megathyrsus maximus (Jacq.) Simon & Jacobs         Guinea grass            non-native   common
Melinis repens (Willd.) Zizka                      Natal redtop            non-native   rare
Saccharum officinarum L.                           sugar cane              Polynesian   uncommon
Setaria verticillata (L.) P. Beauv.                bristly foxtail         non-native   uncommon
Tragus berteronianus Schult.                       bur grass               non-native   rare
DICOTS
ACANTHACEAE (Acanthus Family)
Asystasia gangetica (L.) T. Anderson               Chinese violet          non-native   rare
AMARANTHACEAE (Amaranth Family)
Alternanthera pungens Kunth                        khaki weed              non-native   rare

                                               6
SCIENTIFIC NAME                                        COMMON NAME                   STATUS       ABUNDANCE
Amaranthus spinosus L.                                 spiny amaranth                non-native   rare
Amaranthus viridis L.                                  slender amaranth              non-native   rare
Atriplex suberecta Verd.                               ---------------               non-native   rare
Chenopodium carinatum R. Br.                           keeled goosefoot              non-native   uncommon
Chenopodium murale L.                                  'aheahea                      non-native   rare
Salsola tragus L.                                      Russian thistle, tumbleweed   non-native   rare
ANACARDIACEAE (Mango Family)
Mangifera indica L.                                    mango                         non-native   rare
APOCYNACEAE (Dogbane Family)
Asclepias physocarpa (E.Mey.) Schlect.                 baloon plant                  non-native   rare
Calotropis procera (Ait.) Ait. f.                      small crown flower            non-native   uncommon
ASTERACEAE (Sunflower Family)
Ageratum conyzoides L.                                 maile hohono                  non-native   rare
Bidens pilosa L.                                       Spanish needle                non-native   uncommon
Calyptocarpus vialis Less.                             -----------------             non-native   rare
Conyza bonariensis (L.) Cronq.                         hairy horseweed               non-native   rare
Conya canadensis (L.) Cronq.                           horseweed                     non-native   rare
Dyssodia tenuiloba (DC.) B.L. Rob.                     Dahlberg daisy                non-native   rare
Eclipta prostrata (L.) L.                              false daisy                   non-native   rare
Emilia fosbergii Nicolson                              red pualele                   non-native   rare
Encelia farinosa A. Gray                               brittlebush                   non-native   rare
Flaveria trinervia (Spreng.) C. Mohr                   clustered yellowtops          non-native   rare
Galinsoga parviflora Cav.                              -----------------             non-native   rare
Heterotheca grandiflora Nutt.                          telegraph weed                non-native   rare
Parthenium hysterophorus L.                            Santa Maria                   non-native   rare
Pluchea carolinensis (Jacq.) G. Don                    sourbush                      non-native   uncommon
Pluchea indica (L.) Less.                              Indian fleabane               non-native   rare
Senecio madagascariensis Poir.                         fireweed                      non-native   rare
Sonchus oleraceus L.                                   pualele                       non-native   rare
Synedrella nodiflora (L.) Gaertn.                      nodeweed                      non-native   rare
Tridax procumbens L.                                   coat buttons                  non-native   uncommon
Verbesina encelioides (Cav.) Benth. & Hook.            golden crown-beard            non-native   common
Xanthium Strumarium L.                                 kikania                       non-native   rare
Zinnia peruviana (L.) L.                               puapihi                       non-native   rare
BIGNONIACEAE (Bigonia Family)
Tabebuia heterophylla (A.P. de Candolle) Britton       pink tecoma                   non-native   rare
BORAGINANCEAE (Borage Family)
Cordia subcordata Lam.                                 kou                           indigenous   rare
Heliotropium procumbens Mill.                          fourspike heliotrope          non-native   uncommon
BRASSICACEAE (Mustard Family)
Coronopus didymus (L.) Sm.                             swinecress                    non-native   rare
Lepidium virginicum L.                                 pepperweed                    non-native   rare

                                                   7
SCIENTIFIC NAME                                     COMMON NAME              STATUS       ABUNDANCE
Lobularia maritima (L.) Desv.                       sweet alyssum            non-native   rare
Sisymbrium altissimum L.                            tumble mustard           non-native   rare
BUDDLEIACEAE (Butterfly Bush Family)
Buddleia asiatica Lour.                             dog tail                 non-native   rare
CARYOPHYLLACEAE (Pink Family)
Polycarpon tetraphyllum (L.) L.                     four-leaved allseed      non-native   rare
CASUARINACEAE (She-oak Family)
Casuarina equisetifolia L.                          common ironwood          non-native   rare
CLEOMACEAE (Cleome Family)
Cleome gynandra L.                                  wild spider flower       non-native   rare
CONVOLVULACEAE (Morning Glory Family)
Ipomoea obscura (L.) Ker-Gawl.                      -----------------        non-native   rare
Ipomoea triloba L.                                  little bell              non-native   rare
Merremia aegyptia (L.) Urb.                         hairy merremia           non-native   rare
CUCURBITACEAE (Gourd Family)
Cucumis dipsaceus Ehrenb. ex Spach                  hedgehog gourd           non-native   rare
Momordica charantia L.                              bitter melon             non-native   rare
EUPHORBIACEAE (Spurge Family)
Codiaeum variegatum (L.) Blume                      croton                   non-native   rare
Euphorbia heterophylla L.                           kaliko                   non-native   rare
Euphorbia hirta L.                                  hairy spurge             non-native   uncommon
Euphorbia hypericifolia L.                          graceful spurge          non-native   uncommon
Euphorbia lactea Haworth                            milk-striped euphorbia   non-native   rare
Euphorbia prostrata Aiton                           protrate spurge          non-native   rare
Macaranga tanarius (L.) Mull. Arg.                  parasol leaf tree        non-native   rare
Ricinus communis L.                                 Castor bean              non-native   uncommon
FABACEAE (Pea Famly)
Chamaecrista nictitans (L.) Moench                  partridge pea            non-native   uncommon
Crotalaria incana L.                                fuzzy rattlepod          non-native   uncommon
Crotalaria pallida Aiton                            smooth rattlepod         non-native   uncommon
Crotalaria retusa L.                                rattlepod                non-native   rare
Desmanthus pernambucanus (L.) Thellung              slender mimosa           non-native   rare
Desmodium tortuosum (Sw.) DC.                       Florida beggarweed       non-native   uncommon
Gliricidia sepium (N. Jacquin) Steudel              madre de cacao           non-native   rare
Indigofera hendecaphylla Jacq.                      creeping indigo          non-native   rare
Indigofera suffruticosa Mill.                       inikö                    non-native   rare
Leucaena leucocephala (Lam.) de Wit                 koa haole                non-native   uncommon
Macroptilium atropupureum (DC.) Urb.                siratro                  non-native   rare
Macroptilium lathyroides (L.) Urb.                  wild bean                non-native   rare
Neonotonia wightii (Wight & Arnott) Lackey          glycine                  non-native   rare
Pithecellobium dulce (Roxb.) Benth.                 'opiuma                  non-native   rare
Prosopis pallida (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.) Kunth   kiawe                    non-native   common

                                                8
SCIENTIFIC NAME                                       COMMON NAME              STATUS       ABUNDANCE
Senna occidentalis (L.) Link                          coffee senna             non-native   rare
Senna siamea (Lam.) H. Irwin & Barneby                Siamese shower           non-native   rare
Senna surattensis (N.L.Burm.) H.Irwin & Barneby       kolomona                 non-native   rare
Trifolium repens L.                                   white clover             non-native   rare
Vicia sativa L.                                       common vetch             non-native   rare
LAMIACEAE (Mint Family)
Leonotis nepetifolia (L.) R. Br.                      lion's ear               non-native   uncommon
MALVACAE (Mallow Family)
Abutilon grandifolium (Willd.) Sweet                  hairy abutilon           non-native   rare
Malva parviflora L.                                   cheeseweed               non-native   rare
Malvastrum coromandelianum (L.) Garcke                false mallow             non-native   uncommon
Sida fallax Walp.                                     'ilima                   indigenous   uncommon
Sida rhombifolia L.                                   Cuban jute               non-native   uncommon
Sida spinosa L.                                       prickly sida             non-native   rare
Waltheria indica L.                                   'uhaloa                  indigenous   common
MELIACEAE (Mahogany Family)
Melia azedarach L.                                    pride of India           non-native   rare
MORACEAE (Fig Family)
Ficus benjamina L.                                    weeping fig              non-native   rare
MYRTACEAE (Myrtle Family)
Syzygium cumini (L.) Skeels                           Java plum                non-native   rare
NYCTAGINACEAE (Four-o'clock Family)
Boerhavia coccinea Mill.                              scarlet spiderling       non-native   uncommon
OXALIDACEAE (Wood Sorrel Family)
Oxalis corniculata L.                                 'ihi                     Polynesian   rare
PASSIFLORACEAE (Passion Flower Family)
Passiflora foetida L.                                 love-in-a-mist           non-native   rare
PLANTAGINACEAE (Plantain Family)
Plantago lanceolata L.                                narrow-leaved plantain   non-native   rare
POLYGONACEAE (Buckwheat Family)
Rumex obtusifolius L.                                 bitter dock              non-native   rare
PORTULACACEAE (Purslane Family)
Portulaca oleracea L.                                 pigweed                  non-native   rare
PRIMULACEAE (Primrose Family)
Anagallis arvensis L.                                 scarlet pimpernel        non-native   rare
SOLANACEAE (Nightshade Family)
Capsicum frutescens L.                                chile pepper             non-native   rare
Datura stramonium L.                                  Jimson weed              non-native   rare
Nicandra physalodes (L.) Gaertn.                      apple of Peru            non-native   rare
Nicotiana glauca R.C. Graham                          tree tobacco             non-native   uncommon
Solanum americanum Mill.                              popolo                   non-native   rare
Solanum lycopersicum L.                               cherry tomato            non-native   rare

                                                  9
SCIENTIFIC NAME                     COMMON NAME       STATUS       ABUNDANCE
VERBENACEAE (Verbena Family)
Lantana camara L.                   lantana           non-native   uncommon
Stachytarpheta jamaicensis          Jamaica vervain   non-native   rare




                               10
                                       FAUNA SURVEY REPORT

                                           SURVEY METHODS

    A walk-through fauna survey method was conducted in conjunction with the botanical survey. All
parts of the project area were covered. Field observations were made with the aid of binoculars and by
listening to vocalizations. Notes were made on species, abundance, activities and location as well as
observations of trails, tracks, scat and signs of feeding. In addition an evening visit was made to the area
to record crepuscular activities and vocalizations and to see if there was any evidence of occurrence of the
Hawaiian hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus semotus) in the area.


                                                 RESULTS

MAMMALS

   Six species of non-native mammals or their signs were observed in the project area during four site
visits. Taxonomy and nomenclature follow Tomich (1986). Most common were axis deer (Axis axis).
One herd was seen, but their tracks, scat, antler rubbings and signs of feeding were seen throughout the
area. Also common were cattle (Bos Taurus) which were in the pastures or concentrated in feed lots.
Uncommon or rare were horses (Equus caballus), mongoose (Herpestes auropunctatus), feral cats (Felis
catus) and dogs (Canis familiaris).

    Other non-native mammals one would expect to see in this habitat include mice (Mus domesticus) and
rats (Rattus spp.). These rodents feed on seeds, fruits, insects, eggs and herbaceous vegetation and are
prey for the cats and mongoose.

   A special effort was made to look for the native Hawaiian hoary bat by making an evening survey at
four sites in the area. When present in an area these bats can be easily identified as they forage for insects,
their distinctive flight patterns clearly visible in the glow of twilight. No evidence of such activity was
observed though visibility was excellent and plenty of flying insects were seen. In addition, a bat-
detecting device (Batbox IIID) was employed, set to the frequency of 27,000 Hertz which these bats are
known to use for echolocation. No bats were detected at any site using this device.


BIRDS

   Both the diversity of birds and their numbers were substantial across the project area due to the
presence of cattle feed lots with grains and insect populations. Nineteen species of birds were seen during
four site visits to the property. Taxonomy and nomenclature follow American Ornithologists' Union
(2009). Included were eighteen introduced, non-native species and one migratory species, the kolea or
Pacific golden-plover (Pluvialis fulva).

    The common bird species included: zebra dove (Geopelia striata), common myna (Acridotheres
tristis), spotted dove (Streptopelia chinensis), gray francolin (Francolinus pondicerianus), northern
cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), and house finch (Carpodacus mexicanus). The remaining thirteen
species were uncommon to rare on the property. A few other non-native birds such as the nutmeg
mannikin (Lonchura punctulata) and the mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) might occasionally be seen
here, but the habitat is not suitable for Hawaii's native forest birds that are presently restricted to higher
                                                       11
elevations beyond the range of mosquitoes and the deadly avian diseases they carry and transmit. None of
the Endangered nene goose (Branta Sandwicensis) were seen in this kiawe forest habitat.

    Hawaiian Biodiversity and Mapping records indicate that several of the Endangered Hawaiian stilt
(Himantopus mexicanus knudseni) and Hawaiian coot (Fulica alai) have been occasionally seen at a small
plantation reservoir a half mile to the southwest of the project area. These waterbirds are attracted to such
aquatic features. No such aquatic features occur within the project area and these birds are not likely to
utilize this dry habitat.


REPTILES

   Just one species of reptile, the non-native mourning gecko, was observed. These geckos were scattered
throughout the project area and could be heard making their chipping calls during the evening survey.


INSECTS

   An abundance of insect species were observed in the project area during four site visits. The onset of
the wet season stimulates the emergence of many species from dormancy. A total of thirty six species
were recorded in nine insect orders. Taxonomy and nomenclature follow Nishida et al (1992). Three
native species were seen including the endemic and Endangered Blackburn's sphinx moth (Manduca
blackburni) as well as two indigenous dragonflies, the globe skimmer (Pantala flavescens) and the green
darner (Anax junius). The remaining thirty three species were an array of non-native insect introductions
or accidental arrivals.

   One species was abundant across the project area, the dung fly (Musca sorbens). Another six species
were common: the European garden spider (Araneus diadematus), the tachinid fly (Lespesia
archippivora), the honey bee (Apis mellifera), the kiawe moth (Anacamptodes fragillaria), the monarch
butterfly (Danaus plexippus) and the globe skimmer.


MOLLUSKS

   Two species of non-native snails were observed within the property, both of which are common species
but were rare here. These were the giant African snail (Achatina fulica) and the rosy cannibal snail
(Euglandina rosea).




                                                     12
                             DISCUSSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS


   The fauna life on this project area is strongly dominated by non-native species. Of 6 mammals, 15
birds, 1 reptile, 36 insects and 3 mollusks, only 3 insects were native to Hawaii: the endemic and
Endangered Blackburn's Sphinx moth, and two indigenous dragonflies the green darner and the globe
skimmer.

   The Endangered Blackburn's sphinx moths seen were in the egg and larval stages of growth, and they
were found in significant numbers on their alternate host plant species, the non-native tree tobacco
(Nicotiana glauca). Approximately 300 tree tobacco plants were found on the property, mostly in recently
disturbed areas on the northern part of the property. These shrubs, like most of the rest of this property,
were experiencing a flush of new growth in response to recent winter rains and were growing vigorously.
The rains and the vigorous plant growth stimulate a burst of seasonal insect activity as many species
emerge from dormancy and begin a new cycle of growth and breeding. The blackburn's sphinx moth fits
the annual pattern which typically lasts from December through April during which time they breed, lay
eggs which hatch on host plants on which they feed until they mature. Then they migrate to the leaf litter
below the host plants where they pupate. The pupae then begin a long stage of dormancy until the next
winter rains renew the cycle.

   About 7% of the tree tobacco plants (or about 20 widely scattered shrubs) were found to have one or
more eggs on the leaves. One plant had newly hatched larvae that had begun to feed on the leaves and one
other plant had a fully grown 5 inch long caterpillar on it. These larvae have the capacity to ingest the
toxic nicotine in these leaves without being poisoned. These toxins then protect the larvae from potential
predators. Blackburn's sphinx moths co-evolved with native `aiea trees of the genus Nothocestrum which
are also in the nightshade family and contain similar toxins as the tree tobacco. `Aiea trees are quite rare
now and this led to the decline in populations of the moth and its eventual placement on the Endangered
species list. But with the spread of the tree tobacco, this moth has been able to successfully switch host
plants and its numbers are now increasing.

   Tree tobacco is a non-native weed that would, under other circumstances, have no particular value.
Since, however, it has been shown to be important to the survival and increase of the Blackburn's sphinx
moth, it has been given ancillary protections as an essential food plant for this moth under the Endangered
Species Act.

   It is recommended that the owners consult with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to develop an
appropriate mitigation plan for the Blackburn's sphinx moth in this project area.

   The two indigenous dragonflies, the green darner and the globe skimmer, are both species that are
found in other parts of the world besides Hawaii. The green darner is also native to the U.S. mainland and
Mexico where it is widespread and common. The globe skimmer is found throughout the tropics
worldwide. Both species are common in Hawaii. Neither species is of any particular environmental
concern and no recommendations are offered.

    The list of insect species was fairly extensive and many Orders were represented. Other native species
were watched for, especially those that are rare or listed. No damselflies (Megalagrion spp.) were
observed. The habitat was unsuitable for these delicate, water-loving insects. Also, no yellow-faced bees
(Hylaeus spp.) were seen. These small solitary bees are particularly attracted to the flowers of `ilima (Sida
fallax) to which they are well-adapted. `Ilima plants were seen in moderate amounts across the project
area and these were in full flower, but none of these bees were observed.
                                                       13
                                               Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                     501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                          Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                        File Name    : AM_Honoapiilani - Kuikahi
                                                                     Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                      Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date   : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     HONOAPIILANI                                   KUIKAHI                       HONOAPIILANI                               KUIKAHI
                        From North                                 From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45    3      83    16     0        102         15      10     49     0      74     59     53    6     0      118          9      32     9    0             50         344
       Total   3      83    16     0        102         15      10     49     0      74     59     53    6     0      118          9      32     9    0             50         344

     07:00     2     85     25      0       112        23      11     50     1     85     65     88     6     0       159         12     39       7       0       58         414
     07:15    14     72     24      0       110        28       4     51     0     83    100    123     5     2       230         13     42      22       0       77         500
     07:30     2     85     21      0       108        38      13     71     0    122     89     98     4     0       191         15     29      12       0       56         477
     07:45     2     82     31      1       116        33      16     57     0    106     76     92     6     0       174         10     25       3       0       38         434
      Total   20    324    101      1       446       122      44    229     1    396    330    401    21     2       754         50    135      44       0      229        1825

     08:00      3     73      12     0       88         17      11     59     0    87      50     69     7     1     127           7       19      9      0       35         337
     08:15      1     58      13     0       72         10      13     39     0    62      55     80     6     0     141           9       29      8      0       46         321
     08:30      2     76       8     0       86         13       9     39     0    61      50     97     4     0     151           6       16      7      0       29         327
Grand Total    29    614    150      1      794       177       87    415     1   680     544    700    44     3    1291          81     231      77      0      389        3154
Apprch %      3.7   77.3   18.9    0.1                  26    12.8     61   0.1          42.1   54.2   3.4   0.2                20.8    59.4    19.8      0
 Total %      0.9   19.5     4.8     0     25.2        5.6     2.8   13.2     0   21.6   17.2   22.2   1.4   0.1     40.9        2.6      7.3    2.4      0     12.3
                                               Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                      501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                           Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                                  File Name    : AM_Waiale - Kuikahi
                                                                      Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                  Start Date   : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                                  Page No      :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          WAIALE                                    KUIKAHI                           WAIALE                                   KUIKAHI
                         From North                                From East                        From South                                From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds           App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45  48        34    36     0       118         55      16      6     0      77     12     36    5     1           54       10      38    54    1             103           352
       Total 48        34    36     0       118         55      16      6     0      77     12     36    5     1           54       10      38    54    1             103           352

     07:00     55      20     35     0      110        46      18       5    0      69    28     37      16     0        81          5     51        74        0      130         390
     07:15     45      25     39     0      109        80      25       9    0     114    43     47      13     0       103          5     42       114        0      161         487
     07:30     66      27     26     0      119        79      41      12    0     132    16     51      10     0        77          5     29       129        0      163         491
     07:45     47      24     32     0      103        61      43      20    0     124     5     43       4     1        53          6     33        94        0      133         413
      Total   213      96    132     0      441       266     127      46    0     439    92    178      43     1       314         21    155       411        0      587        1781

     08:00      57      23      27   0      107         45       34      4   0      83      9      19      7     0       35          2       25      59      0         86         311
     08:15      35      14      20   0       69         21       17      9   0      47      7      19      5     0       31          3       28      80      0        111         258
     08:30      35      13      26   0       74         22       21      8   0      51      4      17      4     0       25          0       20      48      0         68         218
Grand Total    388    180     241    0      809        409     215      73   0     697   124     269      64     2      459         36     266      652      1        955        2920
Apprch %        48   22.2    29.8    0                58.7    30.8    10.5   0             27   58.6    13.9   0.4                 3.8    27.9     68.3    0.1
 Total %      13.3     6.2     8.3   0     27.7         14      7.4    2.5   0    23.9    4.2     9.2    2.2   0.1     15.7        1.2      9.1    22.3      0       32.7
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                    501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                         Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                  File Name       : AM_S Kamehameha - Maui Lani
                                                                    Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                 Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                  Start Date      : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                  Page No         :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     S KAMEHAMEHA                                MAUI LANI                      S KAMEHAMEHA                                  MAUI LANI
                         From North                               From East                        From South                                 From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45  37        21    54     0      112         23      33     15     0      71      9     11   11     1            32       10      30    35    1              76         291
       Total 37        21    54     0      112         23      33     15     0      71      9     11   11     1            32       10      30    35    1              76         291

     07:00     40     45      50    0      135        25      31      22    0     78     21     33      17      0        71         11     26        41     1        79         363
     07:15     51     48      45    0      144        34      35      28    0     97     18     45      28      0        91         36     25        36     0        97         429
     07:30     59     43      35    0      137        35      36      20    0     91     32     57      61      1       151         34     19        26     2        81         460
     07:45     45     13      49    0      107        30      39       4    0     73     23     28      26      0        77          5     35        25     0        65         322
      Total   195    149     179    0      523       124     141      74    0    339     94    163     132      1       390         86    105       128     3       322        1574

     08:00      30       6     39   0       75          20     36       7   0     63       5       5       6     1       17           3      28       25     0       56         211
     08:15      19       4     26   0       49          33     25       6   0     64       0       2       3     0        5           4      34       23     0       61         179
     08:30      24       4     28   0       56          25     26       1   0     52       2       6       0     0        8           4      23       19     0       46         162
Grand Total    305    184     326   0      815        225     261    103    0    589    110     187     152      3      452        107     220      230      4      561        2417
Apprch %      37.4   22.6      40   0                38.2    44.3   17.5    0          24.3    41.4    33.6    0.7                19.1    39.2        41   0.7
 Total %      12.6     7.6   13.5   0     33.7         9.3   10.8     4.3   0   24.4     4.6     7.7     6.3   0.1     18.7         4.4     9.1      9.5   0.2     23.2
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                  501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                       Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                               File Name    : Kuihelani @ Maui Lani AM
                                                                  Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date   : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                               Page No      :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        KUIHELANI                          MAUILANI                              KUIHELANI                       MAUILANI
                         From North                             From East                        From South                          From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right Thru    Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total Right Thru   Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45  63      115      0     0      178           0    0      0     0         0      0   79   11     0         90     45     0    74     0       119           387
       Total 63      115      0     0      178           0    0      0     0         0      0   79   11     0         90     45     0    74     0       119           387

     07:00     48    100     0     0       148          0     0     0      1      1      0    98     14    0      112    47       0    61        0      108         369
     07:15     67     84     0     0       151          0     0     0      0      0      0    98     30    0      128    36       0    80        0      116         395
     07:30     58    117     0     0       175          0     0     0      0      0      0   143     22    0      165    23       0    82        0      105         445
     07:45     55    104     0     0       159          0     0     0      0      0      0   141      7    0      148    35       0   100        0      135         442
      Total   228    405     0     0       633          0     0     0      1      1      0   480     73    0      553   141       0   323        0      464        1651

     08:00      53    109     0    0      162           0     0     0     0       0      0    114     10   0     124      26      0     56       0       82         368
     08:15      40     94     0    0      134           0     0     0     0       0      0    105     14   0     119      16      0     49       3       68         321
     08:30      45    111     1    0      157           0     0     0     0       0      0    110     15   0     125       9      0     47       1       57         339
Grand Total    429    834     1    0     1264           0     0     0     1       1      0    888    123   0    1011    237       0    549       4      790        3066
Apprch %      33.9     66   0.1    0                    0     0     0   100              0   87.8   12.2   0              30      0   69.5     0.5
 Total %        14   27.2     0    0      41.2          0     0     0     0       0      0     29      4   0       33    7.7      0   17.9     0.1     25.8
                                             Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                   501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                        Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                     File Name     : AM_Honoapiilani - Waiko
                                                                   Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                     Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date    : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                     Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     HONOAPIILANI                                WAIKO                         HONOAPIILANI                                WAIKO
                        From North                              From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45    2    147      6     2      157          4       1    18     0      23      6     99    3     0      108          2       5     2    0               9        297
       Total   2    147      6     2      157          4       1    18     0      23      6     99    3     0      108          2       5     2    0               9        297

     07:00     2    137    12     0       151         10      1      20    0     31     7    103     1     0       111          3      7     12        0         22       315
     07:15     2    132    25     0       159          5      0      12    0     17    13    193     0     0       206          2      5      7        0         14       396
     07:30     5    137    20     0       162          7      1      11    0     19    11    159     0     0       170          2      5      6        0         13       364
     07:45     4    143    15     0       162          5      1      12    0     18    12    147     2     0       161          1      5      4        0         10       351
      Total   13    549    72     0       634         27      3      55    0     85    43    602     3     0       648          8     22     29        0         59      1426

     08:00      4   130      7     0     141           7       3      12   0     22      9   107      1    0      117           2       4      2       0          8       288
     08:15      3    97      8     0     108           7       0      16   0     23      4   116      0    0      120           0       1      3       0          4       255
     08:30      1   102      5     0     108           7       2      10   0     19      2   133      0    0      135           0       2      4       0          6       268
Grand Total    23   1025    98     2    1148          52       9    111    0    172     64   1057     7    0     1128          12      34     40       0         86      2534
Apprch %        2   89.3   8.5   0.2                30.2     5.2   64.5    0           5.7   93.7   0.6    0                   14    39.5   46.5       0
 Total %      0.9   40.4   3.9   0.1     45.3        2.1     0.4     4.4   0     6.8   2.5   41.7   0.3    0      44.5        0.5     1.3    1.6       0       3.4
                                               Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                     501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                          Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                          File Name    : AM_Waiale - E Waiko
                                                                     Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                        Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          WAIALE                                   E WAIKO                           WAIALE                                 E WAIKO
                         From North                               From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45  19         0    37     0          56       15       9     0     0      24      0      0    0     0           0       0      11     6    0            17           97
       Total 19         0    37     0          56       15       9     0     0      24      0      0    0     0           0       0      11     6    0            17           97

     07:00     23      0     28     0        51         10      9      0     0     19      0     0     0     0            0       0     22      6       0       28            98
     07:15     11      1     44     0        56         16      5      0     0     21      0     0     0     0            0       1     39     10       0       50           127
     07:30     11      0     35     0        46         13     11      0     0     24      0     0     0     0            0       0     32     11       0       43           113
     07:45      7      0     20     1        28         13      8      0     0     21      0     0     0     0            0       0     24      9       0       33            82
      Total    52      1    127     1       181         52     33      0     0     85      0     0     0     0            0       1    117     36       0      154           420

     08:00       9      0     14     0       23         15      13     0     0     28      0     0     0     0            0       0      12      7      0       19            70
     08:15      10      0     19     0       29          9       9     0     0     18      0     0     0     0            0       0      13      0      0       13            60
     08:30       8      0     17     0       25          3      13     0     0     16      0     0     0     0            0       0       6      2      0        8            49
Grand Total     98      1    214     1      314         94      77     0     0    171      0     0     0     0            0       1     159     51      0      211           696
Apprch %      31.2    0.3   68.2   0.3                  55      45     0     0             0     0     0     0                  0.5    75.4   24.2      0
 Total %      14.1    0.1   30.7   0.1     45.1       13.5    11.1     0     0    24.6     0     0     0     0            0     0.1    22.8    7.3      0     30.3
                                               Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                    501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                         Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                        File Name    : AM_Kuihelani - E Waiko
                                                                    Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                        Start Date   : 9/29/2010
                                                                                                                                        Page No      :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         KUIHELANI                                 E WAIKO                         KUIHELANI                                E WAIKO
                          From North                              From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right      Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      06:45  39       129      0     0      168          0       0     0     0        0     0     59    3     0         62        2       0    34    0            36         266
       Total 39       129      0     0      168          0       0     0     0        0     0     59    3     0         62        2       0    34    0            36         266

     07:00     25     117     0     0       142          0      0      0     0       0     0    64     3     1        68         10      0    50        0       60         270
     07:15     18     119     0     1       138          0      0      0     0       0     0    65     2     0        67          3      0    64        0       67         272
     07:30     26     102     0     0       128          0      0      0     0       0     0    96     3     0        99          6      0    68        0       74         301
     07:45     35      93     0     0       128          0      0      0     0       0     0   109     3     0       112          5      0    43        0       48         288
      Total   104     431     0     1       536          0      0      0     0       0     0   334    11     1       346         24      0   225        0      249        1131

     08:00       36    111    0      0     147           0      0      0     0       0     0     89     2     0       91          4      0     26       0       30         268
     08:15       19    104    0      3     126           0      0      0     0       0     0     96     0     0       96          4      0     32       0       36         258
     08:30       19    103    0      2     124           0      0      0     0       0     0    116     2     0      118          5      0     15       0       20         262
Grand Total    217     878    0      6    1101           0      0      0     0       0     0    694    18     1      713         39      0    332       0      371        2185
Apprch %      19.7    79.7    0    0.5                   0      0      0     0             0   97.3   2.5   0.1                10.5      0   89.5       0
 Total %        9.9   40.2    0    0.3     50.4          0      0      0     0       0     0   31.8   0.8     0     32.6        1.8      0   15.2       0         17
                                               Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                      501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                           Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                         File Name    : PM_Honoapiilani - Kuikahi
                                                                      Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                      Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     HONOAPIILANI                                   KUIKAHI                       HONOAPIILANI                                KUIKAHI
                        From North                                 From East                        From South                               From West
Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15    4      73    14     0         91         19      22     54     2      97     35     89    9     2       135          5      15     7    0             27       350
      15:30    9      83    21     0        113         17      21     70     0     108     45     84    7     0       136          6      16     2    0             24       381
      15:45    8      88    23     0        119         17      28     54     0      99     59 115      12     0       186          5      15     4    0             24       428
       Total 21     244     58     0        323         53      71 178        2     304 139 288         28     2       457         16      46    13    0             75      1159

     16:00    10     90      23     0       123         23     27      61     0    111     51     81     7     0       139          5      21      5       0         31       404
     16:15     5     95      21     1       122         17     38      68     0    123     55     87     9     0       151          5      18      6       0         29       425
     16:30    12    113      27     0       152         20     27      63     0    110     52     82    10     0       144          4      10      4       0         18       424
     16:45    12    140      16     0       168         19     24      73     0    116     62     83     6     0       151          4      14      2       0         20       455
      Total   39    438      87     1       565         79    116     265     0    460    220    333    32     0       585         18      63     17       0         98      1708

     17:00     11    104      34     0     149           24      27     65     0   116      54     68    11     0     133           8       17      1      0       26         424
Grand Total    71    786    179      1    1037         156     214     508     2   880     413    689    71     2    1175          42     126      31      0      199        3291
Apprch %      6.8   75.8   17.3    0.1                17.7    24.3    57.7   0.2          35.1   58.6     6   0.2                21.1    63.3    15.6      0
 Total %      2.2   23.9     5.4     0     31.5         4.7     6.5   15.4   0.1   26.7   12.5   20.9   2.2   0.1     35.7        1.3      3.8    0.9      0           6
                                       Austin, Tsutsumi, and Associates
                                                      501Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                        Honolulu, HI 96817-5031
Kuikahi Dr & Waiale                                                                File Name       : REDO Waiale @ Kuikahi PM
PM peak                                                                            Site Code       : 00000000
weather: overcast                                                                  Start Date      : 12/23/2010
                                                                                   Page No         :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                         Waiale                       Kuikahi                      Waiale                        Kuikahi
                       From North                    From East                  From South                      From West
 Start Time    Right   Thru    Left   Peds   Right   Thru   Left Peds Right Thru         Left    Peds   Right   Thru   Left    Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM       64     27     42       0      43     33      9      0    19      29     10        0      10     35     45       0       366
   04:15 PM       68     24     50       0      36     54     13      0    11      26      3        0       7     40     58       0       390
   04:30 PM       61     36     77       0      41     45     16      0    12      26      4        0       8     37     39       0       402
   04:45 PM       73     39     55       0      43     39     21      0      9     25      4        0       5     26     67       0       406
       Total    266     126    224       0    163     171     59      0    51     106     21        0      30    138   209        0     1564

 Grand Total    266     126     224      0    163     171     59      0      51   106       21      0      30   138     209       0     1564
   Apprch %    43.2    20.5    36.4      0   41.5    43.5     15      0   28.7    59.6    11.8      0       8   36.6    55.4      0
    Total %      17     8.1    14.3      0   10.4    10.9     3.8     0     3.3     6.8    1.3      0     1.9     8.8   13.4      0
   Unshifted    266     126     224      0    163     171      59     0      51    106      21      0      30    138     209      0     1564
 % Unshifted    100     100     100      0    100     100    100      0    100    100     100       0    100    100     100       0      100
     Bank 1       0       0       0      0      0       0       0     0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0      0        0
   % Bank 1       0       0       0      0      0       0       0     0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0      0        0
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                    501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                         Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                               File Name      : PM_S Kamehameha - Maui Lani
                                                                    Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                              Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                               Start Date     : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                               Page No        :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     S KAMEHAMEHA                                MAUI LANI                      S KAMEHAMEHA                               MAUI LANI
                         From North                               From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15   35       17    33     0       85        50       40      7     0      97      9     21   11     0       41          9      25    23    1          58           281
      15:30   37       11    29     0       77        56       49      3     0     108     13     19    5     1       38          9      38    45    1          93           316
      15:45   42       19    35     0       96        76       34      8     0     118      5     18    8     0       31          5      27    39    0          71           316
       Total 114       47    97     0      258       182     123      18     0     323     27     58   24     1      110         23      90 107      2         222           913

     16:00     30     26     30    0        86        60      48     10     0    118     6      20     6     1        33         11     41       46     0       98         335
     16:15     60     33     42    0       135        57      38     13     0    108     8      23    10     0        41         15     39       43     0       97         381
     16:30     56     21     43    0       120        63      40     10     0    113    14      26    12     2        54         16     41       58     4      119         406
     16:45     51     18     26    0        95        70      42      9     0    121     6      25     8     0        39         13     38       54     0      105         360
      Total   197     98    141    0       436       250     168     42     0    460    34      94    36     3       167         55    159      201     4      419        1482

     17:00      46     15     44   0       105         50      43     11    0    104      6      16     8     2       32          8      40      47     0       95         336
Grand Total    357   160     282   0       799        482     334     71    0    887     67    168     68     6      309         86     289     355     6      736        2731
Apprch %      44.7     20   35.3   0                 54.3    37.7      8    0          21.7   54.4     22   1.9                11.7    39.3    48.2   0.8
 Total %      13.1    5.9   10.3   0      29.3       17.6    12.2    2.6    0   32.5    2.5     6.2   2.5   0.2     11.3        3.1    10.6      13   0.2     26.9
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                   501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                        Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                      File Name    : PM_Kuihelani - Maui Lani
                                                                   Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                      Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        KUIHELANI                                MAUI LANI                        KUIHELANI                               MAUI LANI
                         From North                              From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15   73     154      0     0      227          0       0     0     0        0     0     99   26     0      125         18       0    44    0           62         414
      15:30   89     146      0     0      235          0       0     0     0        0     0 103      34     0      137         13       0    74    0           87         459
      15:45   86     135      0     0      221          0       0     0     0        0     0 109      42     0      151         19       0    39    0           58         430
       Total 248     435      0     0      683          0       0     0     0        0     0 311 102         0      413         50       0 157      0          207        1303

     16:00     88    149     0     0       237          0      0      0     0       0     0   135     31     0      166         19      0     65        0       84         487
     16:15     79    146     0     0       225          0      0      0     0       0     0   113     32     0      145         19      0     60        0       79         449
     16:30    103    132     0     0       235          0      0      0     0       0     0   106     31     0      137         24      0     67        0       91         463
     16:45     93    158     0     0       251          0      0      0     0       0     0   132     35     0      167          7      0     56        0       63         481
      Total   363    585     0     0       948          0      0      0     0       0     0   486    129     0      615         69      0    248        0      317        1880

     17:00      79   126     0     0      205           0      0      0     0       0     0    108      30   0     138           14     0     69        0       83         426
Grand Total    690   1146    0     0     1836           0      0      0     0       0     0    905    261    0    1166         133      0    474        0      607        3609
Apprch %      37.6   62.4    0     0                    0      0      0     0             0   77.6   22.4    0                21.9      0   78.1        0
 Total %      19.1   31.8    0     0      50.9          0      0      0     0       0     0   25.1     7.2   0     32.3         3.7     0   13.1        0     16.8
                                             Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                   501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                        Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                     File Name    : PM_Honoapiilani - Waiko
                                                                   Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                     Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     HONOAPIILANI                                WAIKO                         HONOAPIILANI                                WAIKO
                        From North                              From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15  12     119      0     0      131          1       2     2     0        5     3 129       8     1      141          9       4     5    1            19         296
      15:30    7    125      2     0      134          0       3     3     0        6     5 129       7     0      141         13       8    14    1            36         317
      15:45  15     162      1     0      178          1       2     6     3      12      2 125       9     2      138         15       2    11    2            30         358
       Total 34     406      3     0      443          2       7    11     3      23     10 383      24     3      420         37      14    30    4            85         971

     16:00    13    129     1     0       143          1      3      8     0     12     4    122     6     0       132          6      1    10        0         17       304
     16:15    16    125     2     0       143          1      1      2     0      4     3    142     5     4       154         12      6    14        0         32       333
     16:30     3    151     6     3       163         11      4     12     0     27    12    131     1     0       144          1      1     6        1          9       343
     16:45     6    182     8     0       196         17      8     18     0     43    17    126     1     0       144          5      3     3        0         11       394
      Total   38    587    17     3       645         30     16     40     0     86    36    521    13     4       574         24     11    33        1         69      1374

     17:00     10   154      7     3     174          12       2     23     0    37      9   120      3     0     132           1       0     1       0        2         345
Grand Total    82   1147    27     6    1262          44      25     74     3   146     55   1024    40     7    1126          62      25    64       5      156        2690
Apprch %      6.5   90.9   2.1   0.5                30.1    17.1   50.7   2.1          4.9   90.9   3.6   0.6                39.7      16    41     3.2
 Total %        3   42.6     1   0.2     46.9        1.6     0.9    2.8   0.1    5.4     2   38.1   1.5   0.3     41.9        2.3     0.9   2.4     0.2       5.8
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                    501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                         Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                          File Name    : PM_Waiale - E Waiko
                                                                    Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          WAIALE                                  E WAIKO                            WAIALE                                 E WAIKO
                         From North                               From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15    6        1    21     0         28       13      16      0     0      29      0      0    0     0           0       0      14     6    0            20          77
      15:30  13         0    17     0         30       23      23      0     1      47      0      0    0     0           0       0      13     5    0            18          95
      15:45    6        0    19     0         25       30      23      0     0      53      0      0    0     0           0       0      15    11    0            26         104
       Total 25         1    57     0         83       66      62      0     1     129      0      0    0     0           0       0      42    22    0            64         276

     16:00      3      0     13    0          16       23     12      0     0      35     0      0     0     0            0       0     12     11       0         23          74
     16:15      8      0      9    0          17       20     30      0     0      50     0      0     0     0            0       0      9     12       0         21          88
     16:30      7      1      9    0          17       20     27      0     0      47     0      0     0     0            0       0      7     13       0         20          84
     16:45     15      0     12    0          27       22     26      0     0      48     0      0     0     0            0       0     13     10       0         23          98
      Total    33      1     43    0          77       85     95      0     0     180     0      0     0     0            0       0     41     46       0         87         344

     17:00       4      1     16   0        21         23      21     0     0      44     0      0     0     0            0       0      10      6      0       16            81
Grand Total     62      3    116   0       181        174     178     0     1     353     0      0     0     0            0       0      93     74      0      167           701
Apprch %      34.3    1.7   64.1   0                 49.3    50.4     0   0.3             0      0     0     0                    0    55.7   44.3      0
 Total %       8.8    0.4   16.5   0      25.8       24.8    25.4     0   0.1    50.4     0      0     0     0            0       0    13.3   10.6      0     23.8
                                              Austin, Tsutsumi & Associates
                                                                   501 Sumner Street, Suite 521
                                                                        Honolulu, HI 96817
                                                                                                                                       File Name    : PM_Kuihelani - E Waiko
                                                                   Phone: 533-3646 Fax: 526-1267                                       Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 9/28/2010
                                                                                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        KUIHELANI                                 E WAIKO                         KUIHELANI                                E WAIKO
                         From North                              From East                        From South                              From West
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
      15:15   33     137      0     0      170          0       0     0     0        0     0     88    3     0       91          4       0    24    0          28           289
      15:30   32     124      0     0      156          0       0     0     0        0     0 115       5     0      120         10       0    38    0          48           324
      15:45   40     119      0     0      159          0       0     0     0        0     0 100       7     0      107          4       0    30    0          34           300
       Total 105     380      0     0      485          0       0     0     0        0     0 303      15     0      318         18       0    92    0         110           913

     16:00     33    145     0     0       178          0      0      0     0       0     0   141     6     0       147          2      0    28        0       30         355
     16:15     39    115     0     0       154          0      0      0     0       0     0   129     3     0       132          4      0    22        0       26         312
     16:30     36    127     0     1       164          0      0      0     0       0     0   122     1     0       123          1      0    25        0       26         313
     16:45     38    112     0     0       150          0      0      0     0       0     0   125     3     0       128          1      0    26        0       27         305
      Total   146    499     0     1       646          0      0      0     0       0     0   517    13     0       530          8      0   101        0      109        1285

     17:00      36    119    0      1     156           0      0      0     0       0     0    117     5    0       122          3      0      31      0       34         312
Grand Total    287    998    0      2    1287           0      0      0     0       0     0    937    33    0       970         29      0    224       0      253        2510
Apprch %      22.3   77.5    0    0.2                   0      0      0     0             0   96.6   3.4    0                 11.5      0   88.5       0
 Total %      11.4   39.8    0    0.1     51.3          0      0      0     0       0     0   37.3   1.3    0      38.6        1.2      0     8.9      0     10.1
