                  Combined Notice of FONSI/NOI-RROF

                      Notice of Finding of No Significant Impact
                   and Notice of Intent to Request Release of Funds


May 15, 2009
Department of Economic Development
1249 W. Main Street
El Centro, CA 92243
760.335.3538


This Notice shall satisfy the above-cited two separate but related procedural notification
requirements for activities to be undertaken by the City of El Centro for the Adam Avenue Indoor
Sports Complex.

                            REQUEST FOR RELEASE OF FUNDS

On or about June 18, 2009, the City of El Centro Department of Economic Development will
submit a request to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the release
CDBG funds under Title 1 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as
amended, to undertake the redevelopment/replacement of an existing aquatic facility with a
22,000 square foot multi-purpose indoor field complex known as the Adams Avenue Indoor
Sports Complex. The project site is located at the southeast corner of S. 8th Street and Adams
Avenue in the City of El Centro, Imperial County, California.

                           FINDING OF NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT

The City has determined that the project will have no significant impact on the human
environment. Therefore, an Environmental Impact Statement under the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 is not required. Additional project information is contained in the
Environmental Review Record (EER) on file at the City of El Centro Planning & Zoning
Department, 1275 W. Main Street, and may be examined or copied Monday through Friday,
8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.

                                     PUBLIC COMMENTS

Any individual, group, or agency disagreeing with this determination or wishing to comment on
the project may submit written comments to Ms. Norma M. Villicaña, Director of Planning &
Zoning. All comments received by June 1, 2009 will be considered by the City prior to
authorizing submission of a request for release of funds. Commentors should specify which
part of this Notice they are addressing.
                                      RELEASE OF FUNDS

The City certifies to HUD that Mr. Ruben A. Duran in his capacity as Certifying Officer consents
to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts if an action is brought to enforce responsibilities
in relation to the environmental review process and that these responsibilities have been
satisfied. HUD's approval of the certification satisfies its responsibilities under NEPA and
related laws and authorities, and allows the City of El Centro to use Program funds.

                              OBJECTIONS TO RELEASE OF FUNDS

HUD will accept objections to its release of funds and the City's certification for a period of
fifteen days following the anticipated submission date or its actual receipt of the request
(whichever is later) only if it is on one of the following bases: (a) the certification was not
executed by the Certifying Officer of the Responsible Entity (RE); (b) the RE has omitted a step
or failed to make a decision or finding required by HUD regulations at 24 CFR Part 58; (c) the
grant recipient or other participants in the project have committed funds or incurred costs not
authorized by 24 CFR Part 58 before approval of a release of funds by HUD; or (d) another
Federal agency acting pursuant to 40 CFR Part 1504 has submitted a written finding that the
project is unsatisfactory from the standpoint of environmental quality. Objections must be
prepared and submitted in accordance with the required procedures (24 CFR Part 58) and shall
be addressed to Office of Community Planning and Development, HUD Region IX, 450 Golden
Gate Avenue, Box 36003, San Francisco, CA 94102-3448. Potential objectors should contact
HUD to verify the actual last day of the objection period.

Mr. Ruben A. Duran
NEPA Certifying Officer
City of El Centro
                                                 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                                                 Development
                                                 San Francisco Regional Office - Region IX
                                                 600 Harrison Street
                                                 San Francisco, California 94107-1387
                                                 www.hud.gov
                                                 espanol.hud.gov




                          Environmental Assessment
                              for HUD-funded Proposals




Project Identification:    Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
                           Southeast Corner of 8th Street and Adams Avenue
                           El Centro, CA, 92243




Preparer:                  Michael Brandman Associates
                           340 South Farrell Drive
                           Suite A-210
                           Palm Springs, CA 92262


Responsible Entity:        City of El Centro Department of Economic Development


Month/Year:                May 2009
                                Environmental Assessment

Responsible Entity: [24 CFR 58.2(a)(7)]

City of El Centro Department of Economic Development


Certifying Officer [24 CFR 58.2(a)(2)]
Ruben Duran, City Manager


Project Name:

Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex


Project Location:

Southeast corner of 8th Street and Adams Avenue, El Centro, CA 92243


Estimated total project cost:
$3,312,689___________________________________________________________

Grant Recipient: City of El Centro______________________________________
[24 CFR 58.2(a)(5)]


Recipient Address: 1275 West Main Street El Centro CA 92243_______

Project Representative: Stacy R. Cox, Community Development Specialist

Telephone Number:
760.335.3538___________________________________________________________


Conditions for Approval: (List all mitigation measures adopted by the responsible entity to
eliminate or minimize adverse environmental impacts. These conditions must be included in
project contracts and other relevant documents as requirements). [24 CFR 58.40(d), 40 CFR 1505.2(c)]

The following Conditions of Approval are applicable to the Adams Avenue Indoor Sports
Complex:

         1. The project shall be developed to comply with the commercial zone design standards
            as outlined in Section 29-63 of the City Code. Prior to development, the applicant
            shall provide architectural elevation, exterior building colors and materials to the City
            for review and approval. Building materials and colors shall be chosen to work


                                                                                                       2
   harmoniously with adjacent property materials and colors. Building façade materials
   and colors shall consist of stucco construction and earth tones or soft muted colors.
2. The project shall provide the required off-street parking spaces for the project site.
   Each of the proposed parking stalls shall be a minimum of 9' x 20' in size with a 24'
   wide paved driveway aisle. All driveway aisles and vehicular access ways shall be
   improved and maintained to City standards. In addition, the appropriate number of
   accessible parking stalls shall be provided pursuant to ADA requirements. A
   minimum five (5') foot wide walkway shall be maintained between the accessible
   parking stalls and the building structure. A maximum of 20% of the required parking
     spaces (exclusive of accessible parking stalls) may be designed as compact spaces
     (8½'x 17'). All parking areas shall be maintained in accordance with Section 29-134
     of the City Code.
3.   The project shall provide a minimum of one (1) 12' x 40' loading space in accordance
     with City standards.
4.   Vehicular access ways on the same lot, building site or project shall be not less than
     sixty (60) feet apart as measured along the street frontage.
5.   Driveway approaches proposed on properties in commercial areas are limited to a
     maximum width of thirty-two (32') feet, unless approval for a larger width is obtained by
     the Department of Public Works.
6.   An outside refuse collection area shall be provided for each building. The outside
     refuse collection area shall be screened by a six (6') foot high decorative stucco wall
     with concrete floor and apron and chain link gate with privacy slats. In addition, a
     minimum six (6") inch thick concrete pad shall be provided in front of the trash
     enclosure in accordance with the City's standards. Colors and materials of said
     trash enclosure shall match the façade of the proposed building. Contact the
   sanitation company (CR&R) for further information on the size and number of the
   refuse/recycling container(s) required for the proposed project at (760) 482-5655.
7. The project shall provide any required street dedications and/or off-site
   improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk, paving, street lighting, ADA accessibility) to
   City standards along North 8th Street, Pico Avenue and North 7th Street.
   Encroachment permits and approval from the City shall be obtained for any
   driveways and/or required off-site improvements along North 8th Street, Pico Avenue
   and North 7th Street.
8. Any substandard sidewalk segments along Adams Avenue shall be replaced.
   Encroachment permits and approval from Caltrans shall be obtained for all driveways
   and/or any required offsite improvements along Adams Avenue (Highway 86).
9. The project shall provide and maintain a minimum of 15% of the site with
   landscaping. All landscaping shall be provided in accordance with Section 29-142 of
   the City Code and shall consist primarily of live vegetation. A minimum of eighty



                                                                                            3
   (80%) percent of the required landscaping shall be provided within the frontage area
   or areas visible from a public street. Trees shall be located throughout the parking
   lot in curbed and irrigated planters and not simply at the ends of the parking aisles.
   A minimum of one tree per 200 square feet of landscaping or one tree for every fifth
   parking stall, whichever is more, shall be provided. A top dressing shall be provided
   in all planter areas. Gravel or decorative rocks within the project site shall not be
   used in lieu of vegetative ground cover. Landscaping and irrigation plans prepared
   by a licensed landscape architect shall be submitted to the City for approval prior to
   the issuance of building permits. Such landscaping shall include trees of a size and
    type in compliance with the other provisions of the landscaping ordinance and
    planted twenty (20) feet on center or equivalent approved spacing.
10. All undeveloped areas within the building site shall be covered with blacktop,
    concrete, recycled asphalt, landscaping or an approved dust preventive ground
    covering.
11. A drainage plan shall be submitted to the City for review and approval prior to the
    issuance of building permits. Said drainage plan shall describe the method for
    handling drainage of the site.
12. The project shall provide lighting within the parking lot to City standards. All outdoor
    lighting within the parking lot shall be hooded and arranged to deflect away from
    adjacent properties and City streets.
13. The project shall comply with all applicable provisions of the California Code of
    Regulations Title 24 (ADA).
14. Project construction operations must adhere to the measures found in the Imperial
    County Air Pollution Control District (ICAPCD) Regulation-Fugitive Dust Rules as
    well as ICAPCD CEQA Handbook Measure for Construction equipment and fugitive
    PM10 control that assist in reducing short-term air pollutant emission (ICAPCD
    2006). The ICAPCD Rules and Regulations can be found at
    http://www.imperialcounty.net.
15. Building permits shall not be issued for any new construction related to the project
    until verification from the elementary and high school districts is received, certifying
    that the State mandated school impact mitigation fees have been paid or addressed
    as otherwise provided or authorized by law.
16. Building permits shall not be issued for any new construction related to the project
    until the appropriate development impact and sewer/water capacity fees have been
    paid to the City.
17. The project shall be developed in accordance with the Fire Department's fire
    protection features and specified fire lane designations.
18. The project site shall be maintained in a good, clean, orderly manner, free of any
    debris or junk materials.



                                                                                               4
        19. Pursuant to Section 29-343(a) of the City Code, this Site Plan Review shall become
            null and void if not exercised within one (1) year.
        20. The project shall comply with all other applicable State and City regulations,
            ordinances and resolutions.

In addition, the following mitigation measures also apply during construction or operation of the
Adams Indoor Sports Park:

Aesthetics
AES 1:         Any modification to project's existing Lighting Plan shall require a photometric
               analysis prior to building final. External lighting modifications, if proposed, shall
               be energy-efficient and shielded, filtered, or recessed so that direct glare and
               reflections are contained within the boundaries of the project, and shall be
               directed downward and away from adjoining properties and from public right-of-
               ways or open space areas.

Air Quality
AQ-1:          Prior to commencement of construction activities, including demolition and
               grading, the construction contractor shall prepare a Dust Control Plan (DCP) to
               be implemented during all construction activities per ICAPCD Rule 801 Section
               F.2, subject to review and approval by the City Engineer and ICAPCD.

AQ-2:          The construction contractor shall comply with ICAPCD Rule 801, Construction
               and Earthmoving Activities, sections E, F and G to the satisfaction of the Public
               Works Director and ICAPCD.

AQ-3:          Prior to the issuance of a building permit, to the extent feasible, the City shall
               demonstrate that the design of the proposed buildings or structures exceed by 5
               percent 2008 Building Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and
               Nonresidential Buildings. In addition, the project shall use roof material with a
               solar reflectance value meeting the EPA/DOE Energy Star® rating to reduce
               summer cooling needs. The project shall also use energy efficient lighting where
               new lighting is to be installed. Documentation of compliance with this measure
               shall be provided to the City of El Centro Building Official for review and approval
               prior to issuance of building permit(s) and approval of features shall be confirmed
               by the City of El Centro Building Official prior to certificate of occupancy.

AQ-4:          The design of the facility shall include landscaping such as shade trees around
               main buildings and around the parking lots. The trees, shrubs, and groundcover
               shall be drought tolerant. The landscaping shall consist of drought-resistant
               plants in lieu of turf, wherever feasible.



                                                                                                       5
AQ-5:         The design of the facility shall include a recycling component for storage of
              recyclables and green waste. The project shall also include recycling receptacle
              for each building strategically placed to facilitate recycling used beverage
              containers. This measure is designed to capture single use beverage containers
              (i.e., personal water bottles) and not large deposits (i.e., household recycling).
              These receptacles shall be placed in visible locations and shall be well marked
              with recycle signs.

AQ-6:         During demolition and construction, the construction contractor shall reduce
              and/or salvage at least 50 percent of non-hazardous construction debris. A
              construction waste reduction plan shall be submitted to the City Building Official
              prior to issuance of building permits.

AQ-7:         To reduce water consumption inside the buildings during occupancy, the
              following measures shall be confirmed by the City County Building Official prior to
              issuance of a certificate of occupancy. All bathroom sink faucets and toilets shall
              be water efficient (i.e., use the U.S. EPA WaterSense label), except where
              prohibited by the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Cultural Resources
CR-1:        If subsurface resources are discovered during construction, operations shall stop
             in the immediate vicinity of the find and the qualified archaeologist shall be
             consulted to determine whether the resource requires further study. The
             qualified archeologist shall make recommendations to the City on the measures
             that shall be implemented to protect the discovered resources, including but not
             limited to excavation of the finds and evaluation of the finds in accordance with
             California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15064.5.

Noise
NOI-1:        The project shall comply with Section 17.1 of the Noise Ordinance with regard to
              interior and exterior noise generated from the proposed indoor sports complex.

NOI-2:        Methods of acoustical screening shall be incorporated into HVAC equipment for
              proposed indoor sports complex.

NOI-3:        A traffic monitoring program shall be drafted to outline plans for directing traffic
              and pedestrians to and from the indoor sports complex in a timely manner during
              special events.

NOI-4:        Control of Construction Hours ­ All construction activities shall comply with
              Section 17.1-8 of the City's Noise Ordinance.



                                                                                                   6
Transportation
TR-1:        To accommodate the project site's maximum attendance potential, Phase III
             proposed parking shall be completed prior to scheduling of special events at the
             Indoor Sports Complex.

TR-2:         The City shall conduct a parking analysis in confirming which uses are and are
              not allowable for sustainable parking for the Indoor Sports Complex. The
              analysis shall set forth conditions regulating types of events to occur at the
              Indoor Sports Complex.




                                                                                                7
FINDING: [58.40(g)]
  _X Finding of No Significant Impact
       (The project will not result in a significant impact on the quality of the human
       environment)


  ___ Finding of Significant Impact
       (The project may significantly affect the quality of the human environment)




Preparer Signature: __________________________________Date: May 13, 2009


Name/Title/Agency: Nancy M. Ferguson, Regional Manager, Michael Brandman Associates


RE Approving Official Signature:
___________________________________________________Date: May 13, 2009


Name/Title/Agency:__ Ruben Duran, City Manager, City of El Centro Economic
Development Department


Statement of Purpose and Need for the Proposal: [40 CFR 1508.9(b)]
The proposed 22,000 square foot Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex would provide youths
with an indoor, "climatic-suitable" environment for athletic activities away from adverse weather
related conditions (i.e., extreme heat) commonly experienced during the summer season. The
project involves the construction of a multi-purpose indoor field complex solely for the purpose
of seasoned athletic events and sports-related activities for public utilization.

Description of the Proposal: [24 CFR 58.32, 40 CFR 1508.25]
The proposed project is for the redevelopment/replacement of the aquatic recreational facility
with a 22,000 square foot multi-purpose indoor, field complex. Initial phase of redevelopment
will commence with the demolition of two existing swimming pools, bathroom/shower facilities,
shaded bleachers, and a large façade facing North 8th Street. Once demolition is completed,
the indoor sports complex will be constructed (Phase I) to include a multi-sport field court with
bleachers all enclosed within a 200-foot by 110-foot structural membrane. Latter phase (Phase
III) development will include the construction of additional onsite parking to accommodate public
utilization of the Indoor Sports Park. The playing field will be artificial turf rather than sod.




                                                                                                 8
Existing Conditions and Trends: [24 CFR 58.40(a)]
The project site is a 2.35-acre parcel of developed land identified as APN 053-031-004. The
parcel is zoned LU, limited use. The location is urban, and surrounded on all sides by
development. To the north is the Premier Inn, northeast is high density residential housing, east
is a public park, southeast is conventional single unit housing, south and west are commercial
businesses, including a 7/11 convenience store. With the projected increase in local population,
the City of El Centro has prepared a "Twenty Year Comprehensive Parks and Recreation
Facilities Master Plan." The plan, which includes the proposed project, focuses on creation of
new park space, upkeep and maintenance to existing facilities and citizen participation into
decisions regarding parks and recreation within the City.




                                                                                               9
                                                        Salton

                           Salton Sea
                                                         Sea
                                                                                    }
                                                                                    þ
                                                                                    |
                                                                                    ·
                                                                                    111




                           Project Site

      Text                                      !
      Text
   Not to Scale


                                     þ
                                     }
                                     |
                                     ·   86




                                                                                    Brawley
                                                                                                þ
                                                                                                }
                                                                                                |
                                                                                                · 78
                                                                                                                   }
                                                                                                                   þ
                                                                                                                   |
                                                                                                                   ·78




                                                                  þ
                                                                  }
                                                                  |
                                                                  ·98
                                                                                      }
                                                                                      þ
                                                                                      |
                                                                                      ·   111




                                                                                                           þ
                                                                                                           }
                                                                                                           |
                                                                                                           ·
                                                                                                           115

                                                                                          Project Site


                                                                    ! El Centro
                                  §
                                  ¦
                                  ¨  8




                                                                                                Calexico
                                              þ
                                              }
                                              |
                                              ·98




                                                                 M E X I C O
Source: Census 2000 Data, The CaSIL, MBA GIS 2009.

                                                                                                                    Exhibit 1
                  NORTH




                              5               2.5   0                   5

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                                            Miles
                                                                                                           Regional Location
27990026 · 05/2009 | 1_regional.mxd                                         CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                                                         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
                                                                   Adams Ave
                                               N 8th St




                                                                    Park Ave




                                                                                            N 7th St
          Project Site

Source: Google Earth Aerial (2009).                                                                       WC      i lA


                                                                                                                        Exhibit 2
                 NORTH




                              150      75           0     150

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                            Feet                                       Local Vicinity Aerial Map
27990026 · 05/2009 | 2_local_aerial_landscape.mxd                              CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                                                            ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Source: T&B Planning (October 30, 2008).

                                                                                           Exhibit 3
              NORTH




                         80           40   0   80

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                 Feet                           Conceptual Site Plan
27990026 · 05/2009 | 3_Site_Plan.ai                     CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                                      ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
                            Statutory Checklist
                                   [24CFR §58.5]
               Factors         Determination and Compliance Documentation
Historic Preservation    A Historic Resources Assessment was prepared for the
[36 CFR 800]
                         proposed project that is attached to this EA (Appendix B).
                         Based on the results of the records search, the existing land-
                         use, and development within and adjacent to the project area,
                         and the parameters of the proposed construction, the potential
                         for impacts to any buried and potentially significant cultural and
                         paleontological resources is considered low. Existing
                         resources have been evaluated at the CEQA- and Section
                         106-level of analysis and are not considered significant at the
                         National, State or Local levels of analysis. Under these
                         conditions and following CEQA guidelines, cultural and
                         paleontological resource monitoring during grading and
                         construction is not recommended.
                         It is always possible that ground-disturbing activities during
                         construction may uncover previously unknown, buried cultural
                         resources without a monitor or archaeologist present. In the
                         event that buried cultural resources are discovered during
                         construction, operations shall stop in the immediate vicinity of
                         the find and a qualified archaeologist shall be consulted to
                         determine whether the resource requires further study. The
                         qualified archeologist shall make recommendations to the Lead
                         Agency on the measures that shall be implemented to protect
                         the discovered resources, including but not limited to
                         excavation of the finds and evaluation of the finds in
                         accordance with Section 15064.5 of the CEQA guidelines.
                         If the resources are determined to be unique historic resources
                         as defined under Section 15064.5 of the CEQA Guidelines,
                         mitigation measures shall be identified by the archaeologist
                         and recommended to the Lead Agency.
                         In addition, reasonable efforts to avoid, minimize, or mitigate
                         adverse effects to the property will be taken, and the State
                         Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) and Native American
                         tribes with concerns about the property, as well as the Advisory
                         Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), will be notified within
                         48 hours in compliance with 36 CFR 800.13(b)(3).
                         In the event of an accidental discovery or recognition of any
                         human remains, PRC Section 5097.98 must be followed. In
                         this instance, once project-related earthmoving begins and if
                         there is accidental discovery or recognition of any human
                         remains in any location other than a dedicated cemetery, steps




                                                                                          13
               Factors                     Determination and Compliance Documentation
Historic Preservation                would be taken: as outlined in the measures identified in the
(cont.)                              Conditions of Approval section.
                                     These measures are all enumerated in the Conditions of
                                     Approval above.

Floodplain                           The project is not located within a 100-year flood hazard as
Management                           mapped by FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
[24 CFR 55, Executive Order 11988]   Community Panel Number 060670 1725 C, dated September
                                     26, 2008.

Wetlands Protection                  Because there are no wetlands as defined in Section 404 of
[Executive Order 11990]              the Clean Water Act on or near the proposed project, no
                                     wetlands would be affected by the project. (Field Observation)

Coastal Zone                         The project site is located inland and is far from any large
Management Act                       coastal water bodies. Therefore, the Coastal Zone
[Sections 307(c),(d)]                Management Act not applicable to the project site.

Sole Source Aquifers                 The City of El Centro does not utilize its groundwater supply for
[40 CFR 149]                         consumption, due to the groundwater being too brackish in
                                     quality for human consumption and agricultural uses. Instead,
                                     the project would continue to utilize the City's water rather than
                                     groundwater, which would not result in a net deficit of aquifer
                                     volume or lowering of the groundwater table. Therefore, the
                                     issue of a Sole Source Aquifer does not apply to this project.

Endangered Species                   Because the project site is already developed, the chance of
Act                                  encountering a sensitive species onsite is minimal. There are
[50 CFR 402]                         some sensitive wildlife species, sensitive plant species, and
                                     sensitive plant communities described by the California Natural
                                     Diversity Data Base (CNDDB) as having potential to occur in
                                     the project vicinity. However, the potential to find such species
                                     in or around the project site is very low due to the lack of
                                     natural vegetation on-site, the heavy disturbance of the natural
                                     environment, the urban nature of the site and vicinity, and the
                                     lack of undisturbed habitat in the project vicinity. Therefore, no
                                     project specific habitat assessment, focused surveys or
                                     biological monitoring will be necessary for the proposed
                                     project. There will be no impact to biological resources as a
                                     result of the proposed project (Field Observation).

Wild and Scenic                      The project site does not drain into a stream or river and will
Rivers Act                           not alter existing drainage patterns since the project site has
[Sections 7 (b), (c)]                already been developed. (Field Observation).




                                                                                                       14
              Factors                    Determination and Compliance Documentation
Air Quality                        Redevelopment of the 2.35-acre project site will not impact air
[Clean Air Act, Sections 176 (c)   quality. The proposed project is in an attainment area or
and (d), and 40 CFR 6, 51, 93]
                                   conforms to the EPA-approved State Implementation Plan
                                   (SIP) for all components. The project includes mitigation
                                   measures and project design features to increase bicycle use
                                   and to reduce vehicle miles traveled. The project will also
                                   comply with all existing rules and regulations pertaining to the
                                   project, including Regulation VII, which has a purpose to
                                   reduce fugitive dust during construction. For these reasons,
                                   the project is consistent with the Air Quality Attainment Plan
                                   (AQAP).
                                   Mitigation measures identified the in Conditions of Approval
                                   listed above would be implemented during construction and/or
                                   operation of the facility.

Farmland Protection                There is no Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or Farmland of
Policy                             Statewide Importance on or adjacent to the proposed project.
Act [7 CFR 658]                    (Field Observation, City of El Centro General Plan).

Environmental Justice              The site is designated in the General Plan and Zoning maps
[Executive Order 12898]            for Limited Use, and that no adverse environmental conditions
                                   affect the site.
                                   The project will provide recreational opportunities to serve the
                                   local residents. It would not expose low income or minority
                                   populations to adverse environmental conditions. The project
                                   is the replacement of a swimming complex with playing fields
                                   and other amenities that can be used by local residents year-
                                   round.
                                   (City of El Centro General Plan; California Environmental
                                   Protection Agency, Cortese List Data Resources. 2009.
                                   Website: www.calepa.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/CorteseList/.




                                                                                                      15
   HUD Environmental
         Standards                  Determination and Compliance Documentation
Noise Abatement and            Although most on-site recreational activities hosted within the
Control [24 CFR 51 B]          indoor sports complex are not anticipated to violate the
                               applicable noise standards, there does remain the possibility
                               that noise levels could exceed 65 dB(A) from within and
                               outside of the sports complex during special events (i.e,
                               soccer games, auctions, concerts). This could subject
                               residents along the south side of Park Avenue to the
                               possibility of "nuisance noise." It is therefore recommended
                               that mitigation require the project development's adherence to
                               Section 17.1 of the City's Noise Ordinance. See Conditions of
                               Approval above.
Toxic/Hazardous/               The project site is not located on or near to a site listed as a
Radioactive Materials,         hazardous materials site pursuant to Government Code
Contamination, Chemicals       Section 65962.5. There are no above- or below-ground
or Gases [24 CFR 58.5(i)(2)]   storage tanks (AST, UST), soil stains, or other types of
                               potential hazards to the public. (California Environmental
                               Protection Agency, Cortese List Data Resources. 2009.
                               Website: www.calepa.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/CorteseList/.

Siting of HUD-Assisted         The project site will not expose either people or buildings to
Projects near Hazardous        additional hazards. The project site is fully surrounded by
Operations [24 CFR 51 C]       residential and commercial uses that do not involve the above
                               ground storage of explosive or flammable materials.
                               (California Environmental Protection Agency, Cortese List
                               Data Resources. 2009. Website:
                               www.calepa.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/CorteseList/

Airport Clear Zones and        The project site is not located within an airport land use
Accident Potential Zones       designated area, nor is it located within 2 miles of a private
[24 CFR 51 D]
                               airport. The project site is also not located within and
                               Accident Potential Zone (City of El Centro General Plan).




                                                                                                  16
                       Environmental Assessment Checklist
              [Environmental Review Guide HUD CPD 782, 24 CFR 58.40; Ref. 40 CFR 1508.8 &1508.27]

Evaluate the significance of the effects of the proposal on the character, features and resources
of the project area. Enter relevant base data and verifiable source documentation to support the
finding. Then enter the appropriate impact code from the following list to make a determination
of impact. Impact Codes: (1) - No impact anticipated; (2) - Potentially beneficial; (3) -
Potentially adverse; (4) - Requires mitigation; (5) - Requires project modification. Note names,
dates of contact, telephone numbers and page references. Attach additional material as
appropriate. Note conditions or mitigation measures required.


   Land Development               Code                      Source or Documentation
 Conformance with                    2       The proposed use (indoor athletic sports park) would
 Comprehensive Plans                         provide a public service that is essential to City of El
 and Zoning                                  Centro's, Public Facilities: Goal 1 of the General Plan
                                             in providing for adequate year-round recreational
                                             activities and facilities that serve all segments of the
                                             community (City of El Centro General Plan).

 Compatibility and Urban             2       The proposed use (indoor athletic sports park) is an
 Impact                                      infill, redevelopment project that is compatible and
                                             supportive of surrounding residential uses and
                                             replaces an existing recreational use. (Field
                                             Observation)

 Slope                               1       Due to the project area being completely flat with no
                                             slope, there is no potential for a landslide to occur,
                                             thereby posing no impact to the project site (Field
                                             Observation).

 Erosion                             1       The proposed project would require the
                                             implementation of a drainage plan that complies with
                                             requirements of the State Water Resources Control
                                             Board General Construction Permit which would
                                             control the potential for erosion from storm water
                                             runoff to occur (see Condition of Approval No. 11). In
                                             addition, the contractors must also comply with
                                             Imperial County Air Pollution Control District
                                             requirements for control of fugitive dust during
                                             construction which would control wind erosion. (see
                                             Condition of Approval No. 14) Also see measures AQ-
                                             1 and AQ-2.




                                                                                                        17
  Land Development      Code               Source or Documentation
Erosion (cont.)                See Condition of Approval No. 10 to control the
                               potential for erosion to occur during long-term
                               operation of the facilities.

Soil Suitability         1     In general, much of the near surface soils in the
                               Imperial Valley consist of silty clays and clays, which
                               are moderate to highly expansive. The native surface
                               clays exhibit moderate to high expansion potential and
                               the clay is expansive when wetted and can shrink with
                               moisture loss (drying). When the site was originally
                               developed for the Plunge, the owner raised the site by
                               4 feet to prevent storm water from entering the site.
                               When the site is redeveloped as part of the proposed
                               project the area will be graded to lower it by 4 feet to
                               be level with the surrounding area. During grading,
                               soils will be engineered to provide the necessary
                               compaction to support the foundations of the habitable
                               structures. Likewise, as necessary, the soils where
                               future parking lots are proposed would be engineered
                               as necessary to prevent pavement cracking, etc.

Hazards and Nuisances    1     The project does not propose a land use that would
including Site Safety          have the potential for the release of hazardous
                               materials into the environment. The project site is not
                               located on or near to a site listed as a hazardous
                               materials site pursuant to Government Code Section
                               65962.5. There are no above- or below-ground
                               storage tanks (AST, UST), soil stains, or other types of
                               potential hazards to the public.
                               The project site is not located within an airport land
                               use designated area, nor is it located within 2 miles of
                               a private airport. The project site is also not located
                               within an Accident Potential Zone.
                               (City of El Centro General Plan; California
                               Environmental Protection Agency, Cortese List Data
                               Resources. 2009. Website:
                               www.calepa.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/CorteseList/.




                                                                                          18
  Land Development        Code                Source or Documentation
Energy Consumption         4     The project site is located in the City of El Centro, in
                                 an area with hot dry summers and cool mild winters.
                                 The City is proposing that the park be an indoor park
                                 that can be used year-round to accommodate local
                                 residents' recreational activities. The indoor park
                                 would be temperature controlled with state-of-the-art
                                 equipment designed to be energy efficient. (see
                                 Mitigation Measure AQ-3 above)

Noise - Contribution to    4     Although most on-site recreational activities hosted
Community Noise                  within the indoor sports park are not anticipated to
Levels                           violate the applicable noise standards, there does
                                 remain the possibility that noise levels could exceed
                                 65 dB(A) from within and outside of the interior during
                                 special events (i.e. soccer games, auctions, concerts).
                                 This could expose residents along the south side of
                                 Park Avenue to short term increases in noise. (see
                                 Mitigation Measure NOI-1 for the project's adherence
                                 to Section 17.1 of the City's Noise Ordinance)
                                 It is also unknown what type of heating, ventilating and
                                 air conditioning units (HVAC) are being proposed, how
                                 units will be acoustically screened and where units will
                                 be located for the indoor sports complex. This can
                                 create a significant noise impact especially if proposed
                                 HVAC units have an operational sound level of 80.5
                                 Db(A) or more, or if multiple HVAC units are proposed.
                                 (See Mitigation Measure NOI-2)
                                 Furthermore, traffic noise levels along Park Avenue
                                 during future park-held events could temporarily
                                 exceed the 70-CNEL standard for the site's zoning
                                 designation (Limited Use). Therefore, mitigation will
                                 be required to address impacts created from traffic-
                                 induced noise. (See Mitigation Measure NOI-3)




                                                                                            19
  Land Development         Code                Source or Documentation
Air Quality Effects of      4     Development of the 2.35-acre project site will not
Ambient Air Quality on            adversely impact air quality. The proposed project is
Project and Contribution          in an attainment area or conforms to the EPA-
to Community Pollution            approved State Implementation Plan (SIP) for all
Levels                            components. The project includes mitigation
                                  measures and project design features to increase
                                  bicycle use and to reduce vehicle miles traveled. The
                                  project will also comply with all existing rules and
                                  regulations pertaining to the project, including
                                  Regulation VII, which has a purpose to reduce fugitive
                                  dust during construction. For these reasons, the
                                  project is consistent with the Air Quality Attainment
                                  Plan (AQAP). (See mitigation measures AQ-1 and
                                  AQ-2)

Environmental Design        4     Scenic vistas in the region are typically thought of as
Visual Quality -                  landscape views of open space and distant mountains.
Coherence, Diversity,             There are no scenic vistas in the project area since the
Compatible Use and                downtown area's, main focus is predominately on
Scale                             architectural and cultural themes. State Highway 86
                                  (Adams Avenue) which runs east to west along the
                                  north side of the project site, is not registered, nor is
                                  eligible for State Scenic Highway status.
                                  The project has the potential to emit ambient amounts
                                  of light onto adjacent multifamily residential dwellings
                                  located south of the project site. The City proposes to
                                  install overhead lighting for the indoor field and to
                                  utilize external wall mounted lighting from the existing
                                  gymnasium. Existing pole-mounted lighting bordering
                                  the tennis courts will also be utilized for the project's
                                  proposed east-end parking lot. Any modification to
                                  existing external lighting involving the increase of
                                  ambient light sources to the project site shall require a
                                  photometric analysis and to require containment of
                                  light source emissions within the boundaries of the
                                  project site. (See Mitigation Measure AES-1)




                                                                                          20
    Socioeconomic        Code                Source or Documentation
Demographic Character     1     The project site will not introduce any barriers, which
Changes                         would isolate a particular neighborhood or population
                                group, nor will it destroy or harm any community
                                institution. The proposed project is for the
                                redevelopment replacement of the aquatic recreational
                                facility with a 22,000 square foot multi-purpose indoor,
                                field complex.
Displacement              1     There are no existing residential dwelling units within
                                the project. The proposed project is for the
                                redevelopment replacement of the aquatic recreational
                                facility with a 22,000 square foot multi-purpose indoor,
                                field complex. No people would be displaced as a
                                result.
Employment and            1     Although the project site will create temporary
Income Patterns                 construction jobs, the project will not disrupt
                                employment and income patterns of the City. The
                                project will serve only for the purpose of providing
                                recreational activities for the City's adults and youth
                                population.

  Community Facilities
     and Services        Code                Source or Documentation
Educational Facilities    1     The project does not include plans for residential
                                development therefore a need for more schools has
                                not been generated. However, as identified in
                                Condition of Approval No. 15, the City must pay the
                                state-mandated fees for schools.

Commercial Facilities     1     The project does not include plans for residential
                                development necessitating the need for commercial
                                facilities. The project site is a adjacent to
                                commercially designated zoning along Adams Avenue
                                with a convenience store (7-Eleven) directly west of
                                the project site. (Field Observation)

Health Care               1     The nearest medical services to serve the project site
                                would be provided by El Centro Regional Medical
                                Center, which is located 1.15 mile southwest of the
                                project site at 1415 Ross Avenue, El Centro, CA.
                                92243.




                                                                                          21
 Community Facilities
    and Services        Code               Source or Documentation
Social Services          1     The nearest social services to serve the project site
                               would be provided by Imperial County Department of
                               Social Services, located 1.02 mile southeast of the
                               project site at 1095 South 4th Street, El Centro, CA.
                               92243.

Solid Waste              1     The project would comply with all applicable federal,
                               state, and local statutes and regulations pertaining to
                               solid waste The nearest solid waste landfill to serve
                               the project site would be provided by the Allied
                               Imperial Landfill, which is located 4.60 miles northeast
                               of the project site at 104 East Robinson Road in an
                               unincorporated portion of Imperial County. The landfill
                               currently has a capacity sufficient for the next 14
                               years. Mitigation Measure AQ-6 requires a
                               construction waste plan be developed that shows that
                               during demolition and construction the contractor shall
                               reduce or salvage at least 50 % of the non-hazardous
                               construction debris.

Waste Water              1     The City of El Centro already provides water and
                               wastewater services to the project site through
                               connections along Adams Avenue The proposed
                               project's wastewater treatment demands can be met
                               through existing City service providers thereby
                               preventing and exceedance of treatment requirements.

Storm Water              1     Although the project is not located within a 100-year
                               flood hazard as mapped by a Flood Insurance Rate
                               Map (FEMA), the project site would be required to
                               submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) to the RWQCB that
                               covers the General Construction Permit (GCP) prior to
                               the beginning of construction. The contractor will be
                               required to prepare and implement a drainage plan
                               that meets the intent of the RWQCB requirements for a
                               Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (see Condition
                               of Approval No. 11)




                                                                                       22
  Community Facilities
     and Services        Code               Source or Documentation
Water Supply              1     The City of El Centro does not utilize its groundwater
                                supply for consumption, due to the groundwater being
                                too brackish in quality for human consumption and
                                agricultural uses. Instead, the project would continue
                                to utilize the City's water rather than groundwater,
                                which would not result in a net deficit of aquifer volume
                                or lowering of the groundwater table.
                                The project is the replacement of the City's public
                                aquatic facilities consisting of two swimming pools and
                                related uses (showers, dressing rooms etc.) with a
                                new indoor sports complex including a playing field
                                using artificial turf rather than sod, and related uses
                                (showers, dressing rooms etc.). No increase in the
                                amount of water is anticipated since the playing fields
                                will be made of artificial turf.

Public Safety:            1     The project site will be adequately served by police
       Police                   protection services. Most activities (i.e., soccer match)
                                would involve non-discretionary review by the City.
                                Larger attendance events (i.e. concert) would be
                                subject to the City's Special Event Permit (SEP) for
                                discretionary review to ensure compliance with the
                                Police Department's regulation criteria for Special
                                Events.

Public Safety: (cont.)    1     The project site will be adequately served by fire
       Fire                     protection services. Most activities (i.e., soccer match)
                                would involve non-discretionary review by the City.
                                Larger attendance events (i.e. concert) would be
                                subject to the City's Special Event Permit (SEP) for
                                discretionary review to ensure compliance with the Fire
                                Department's regulation criteria for special events.

       Emergency          1     Nearest medical services to serve the project site
       Medical                  would be provided by El Centro Regional Medical
                                Center, which is located 1.15 mile southwest of the
                                project site at 1415 Ross Avenue, El Centro, CA.
                                92243.

Open Space and            2     The project would not require the need for additional
Recreation                      open space since the project is proposed for
      Open Space                redevelopment to an existing developed recreation
                                area.




                                                                                        23
 Community Facilities
    and Services            Code                Source or Documentation
Open Space and               2     The project site is for the proposed redevelopment to
Recreation (cont.)                 an existing recreational facility and does not require
      Recreation                   expansion to existing facilities. The proposed project
                                   would replace the existing aquatic facility with the
                                   proposed Indoor Sports Complex. At a future date, the
                                   City intends to replace the aquatic facilities with similar
                                   facilities on the park site east of 7th Street.

      Cultural Facilities    4     The project site has a highly disturbed surface and
                                   contains no known archeological resources. However
                                   it is always possible that cultural resources could be
                                   detected during ground disturbing activities. Shallow
                                   grading and excavation of the surface and subsurface
                                   is proposed. Relocation of existing utilities
                                   underground would also require excavations below
                                   finished grade. If in the event that an accidental
                                   discovery is made, reasonable efforts to avoid,
                                   minimize, or mitigate adverse effects to the property
                                   will be undertaken immediately as a matter of law, and
                                   notification of the appropriate authorities will be made
                                   within 48 hours, in compliance with 36 CFR
                                   800.13(b)(3). (see Mitigation Measure CR-1)

Transportation               4     A Traffic Impact Analysis was prepared by KOA
                                   Corporation (Appendix D) in addressing potential
                                   impacts to traffic circulation from project development.
                                   The analysis found that the project would not require
                                   street closures during construction, and concluded that
                                   existing roadway segments adjacent to the project
                                   would continue to operate at the same level of service
                                   (LOS) as prior to project development.
                                   The proposed parking lots would need to be completed
                                   to accommodate events at the indoor sports park.
                                   This would require Phase III construction of the
                                   proposed parking lot along 7th Street to be completed
                                   prior to scheduled sports events.
                                   In addition, the City's Planning Department would need
                                   to confirm that proposed parking would sufficiently
                                   accommodate such uses including other uses that may
                                   otherwise require additional parking. Therefore,
                                   impacts from inadequate parking capacity would be
                                   less than significant.




                                                                                            24
 Community Facilities
    and Services          Code               Source or Documentation
Transportation (cont.)           (KOA Corporation. 2009. Adams Avenue Sports
                                 Complex Traffic Impact Study. City of El Centro,
                                 California.)

    Natural Features      Code                 Source or Documentation
Water Resources            1     There are no water resources associated with the
                                 project site or vicinity. The site and surrounding area
                                 is urban and there are no streams or other water
                                 resources located in the vicinity. City of El Centro
                                 does not utilize its groundwater supply for
                                 consumption, due to the groundwater being too
                                 brackish in quality for human consumption and
                                 agricultural uses. Instead, the project would continue
                                 to utilize the City's water rather than groundwater,
                                 which would not result in a net deficit of aquifer volume
                                 or lowering of the groundwater table.

Surface Water              1     Based on map analysis and field reconnaissance there
                                 are no federal or state jurisdictional waters located
                                 within the project area or adjacent to the project site.

    Natural Features      Code                 Source or Documentation
Unique Natural Features    1     The project site is fully developed and does not
and Agricultural Lands           contain Unique Natural Features of significant value in
                                 warranting preservation.
                                 The project site does not contain Prime Farmland,
                                 Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide
                                 Importance on or adjacent to the project site. The
                                 proposed project area is not zoned for agricultural use
                                 and is not under contract for agricultural land use.

Vegetation and Wildlife    1     Because the project site is already developed, the
                                 chance of encountering a sensitive species onsite is
                                 minimal. There are some sensitive wildlife species,
                                 sensitive plant species, and sensitive plant
                                 communities described by the California Natural
                                 Diversity Data Base (CNDDB) as having potential to
                                 occur in the project vicinity. However, the potential to
                                 find such species in or around the project area is very
                                 low due to the lack of natural vegetation on-site, the
                                 heavy disturbance of the natural environment, the
                                 presence of domestic animals and pests, and the lack
                                 of undisturbed habitat in the project vicinity.



                                                                                        25
     Natural Features          Code                   Source or Documentation
 Vegetation and Wildlife                Therefore, the potential for affecting biological
 (cont.)                                resources is not significant and no project specific
                                        habitat assessment, focused surveys or biological
                                        monitoring will be necessary for the proposed project.

 Other Factors                 Code     Source or Documentation
 Flood Disaster                   1     The project is not located within a 100-year flood
 Protection Act                         hazard as mapped by FEMA Flood Insurance Rate
 [Flood Insurance]                      Map (FIRM) Community Panel Number 060670 1725
 [§58.6(a)]                             C, dated September 26, 2008.

 Coastal Barrier                  1     The project site is located inland and is far from any
 Resources Act/                         large coastal water bodies. Therefore, the Act not
 Coastal Barrier                        applicable to the project site.
 Improvement Act
 [§58.6(c)]
 Airport Runway Clear             1     The project site is not located within an airport land
 Zone or Clear Zone                     use designated area, nor is it located within 2 miles of
 Disclosure                             a private airport. The project site is also not located
 [§58.6(d)]                             within and Accident Potential Zone.
                                        (City of El Centro General Plan)

 Other Factors                          None.



Summary of Findings and Conclusions
The proposed project with mitigation incorporated will reduce all impacts to environmental
criteria outlined in this Environmental Assessment Document to less than significant. The
proposed use (indoor athletic sports park) would provide a public service that is essential to
Public Facilities Goal 1 of the General Plan in providing for adequate year-round recreational
activities and facilities that serve all segments of the community.

ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROPOSED ACTION
Alternatives and Project Modifications Considered [24 CFR 58.40(e), Ref. 40 CFR   1508.9]
No project alternatives have been proposed at this time.

No Action Alternative [24 CFR 58.40(e)]
Without implementation the project site would remain as the City's existing aquatic center that is
closed and in disrepair, thereby subjecting the site to additional blighted conditions.
Furthermore, without the proposed temperature controlled indoor sports complex, local
residents would be deprived of recreational activities and sports events, or these events would
take place further from the local area. In addition, due to the high temperatures during summer
months, recreational activities would be restricted to evening hours in order to avoid extreme


                                                                                                 26
heat during the summer, or relocate to pre-existing facilities thus presenting overcrowding on
existing recreational resources.

Mitigation Measures Recommended [24 CFR 58.40(d), 40 CFR 1508.20]
Aesthetics

AES-1:         Any modification to project's existing Lighting Plan shall require a photometric
               analysis prior to building final. External lighting modifications, if proposed, shall
               be energy-efficient and shielded, filtered, or recessed so that direct glare and
               reflections are contained within the boundaries of the project, and shall be
               directed downward and away form adjoining properties and from public right-of-
               ways or open space areas.

Air Quality

AQ-1:          Prior to commencement of construction activities, including demolition and
               grading, the construction contractor shall prepare a Dust Control Plan (DCP) to
               be implemented during all construction activities per ICAPCD Rule 801 Section
               F.2, subject to review and approval by the City Engineer and ICAPCD.

AQ-2:          The construction contractor shall comply with ICAPCD Rule 801, Construction
               and Earthmoving Activities, sections E, F, and G to the satisfaction of the Public
               Works Director and ICAPCD.

AQ-3:          Prior to the issuance of a building permit, to the extent feasible, the City shall
               demonstrate that the design of the proposed buildings or structures exceed by 5
               percent 2008 Building Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and
               Nonresidential Buildings. In addition, the project shall use roof material with a
               solar reflectance value meeting the EPA/DOE Energy Star® rating to reduce
               summer cooling needs. The project shall also use energy efficient lighting where
               new lighting is to be installed. Documentation of compliance with this measure
               shall be provided to the City of El Centro Building Official for review and approval
               prior to issuance of building permit(s) and approval of features shall be confirmed
               by the City of El Centro Building Official prior to certificate of occupancy.

AQ-4:          The design of the facility shall include landscaping such as shade trees around
               main buildings and around the parking lots. The trees, shrubs, and groundcover
               shall be drought tolerant. The landscaping shall consist of drought-resistant
               plants in lieu of turf, wherever feasible.

AQ-5:          The design of the facility shall include a recycling component for storage of
               recyclables and green waste. The project shall also include recycling receptacle



                                                                                                   27
            for each building strategically placed to facilitate recycling used beverage
            containers. This measure is designed to capture single use beverage containers
            (i.e., personal water bottles) and not large deposits (i.e., household recycling).
            These receptacles shall be placed in visible locations and shall be well marked
            with recycle signs.

AQ-6:       During demolition and construction, the construction contractor shall reduce
            and/or salvage at least 50 percent of non-hazardous construction debris. A
            construction waste reduction plan shall be submitted to the City Building Official
            prior to issuance of building permits.

AQ-7:       To reduce water consumption inside the buildings during occupancy, the
            following measures shall be confirmed by the City County Building Official prior to
            issuance of a certificate of occupancy. All bathroom sink faucets and toilets shall
            be water efficient (i.e., use the U.S. EPA WaterSense label), except where
            prohibited by the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Cultural Resources

CR-1:       If subsurface resources are discovered during construction, operations shall stop
            in the immediate vicinity of the find and the qualified archaeologist shall be
            consulted to determine whether the resource requires further study. The
            qualified archeologist shall make recommendations to the City on the measures
            that shall be implemented to protect the discovered resources, including but not
            limited to excavation of the finds and evaluation of the finds in accordance with
            California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15064.5.

Noise

NOI-1:      The project shall comply with Section 17.1 of the Noise Ordinance with regard to
            interior and exterior noise generated from the proposed indoor sports complex.

NOI-2:      Methods of acoustical screening shall be incorporated into HVAC equipment for
            proposed indoor sports complex.

NOI-3:      A traffic monitoring program shall be drafted to outline plans for directing traffic
            and pedestrians to and from the indoor sports complex in a timely manner during
            special events.

NOI-4:      Control of Construction Hours ­ All construction activities shall comply with
            Section 17.1-8 of the City's Noise Ordinance.

Transportation


                                                                                              28
TR-1:   To accommodate the project site's maximum attendance potential, Phase III
        proposed parking shall be completed prior to scheduling of special events at the
        Indoor Sports Complex.

TR-2:   The City shall conduct a parking analysis in confirming which uses are and are
        not allowable for sustainable parking for the Indoor Sports Complex. Said
        analysis shall set forth conditions regulating types of events to occur at the
        Indoor Sports Complex.




                                                                                         29
Additional Studies Performed

See attached additional studies

       1. Draft CEQA Initial Study/Environmental Checklist, Michael Brandman Associates,
          March 2009. (Appendix A.)
       2. Air Quality Background and Model Output, Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Park, City
          of El Centro, California, March 2009. (Appendix B.)
       3. NEPA/CEQA Letter Report: Historic Resource Assessment and Recommendations
          for the Adams Park Indoor Sports Park Redevelopment Project, Southeast Corner of
          8th Street and Adams Avenue, El Centro, California, Michael Brandman Associates,
          March 2009. (Appendix C.)
       4. Adams Avenue Sports Complex Traffic Impact Study. KOA Corporation, 2009.
          (Appendix D.)

List of Sources, Agencies and Persons Consulted [40 CFR 1508.9(b)]

       1. City of El Centro General Plan.
       2. City of El Centro. 2008. Website: http://www.cityofelcentro.org/.
       3. KOA Corporation. 2009. .Adams Avenue Sports Complex Traffic Impact Study. City
          of El Centro, California,
       4. FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) Community Panel Number 060670 1725 C,
          dated September 26, 2008.
       5. FEMA Map Service Center. 2008. Website: www.msc.fema.gov/
       6. California Environmental Protection Agency, Cortese List Data Resources. 2009.
          Website: www.calepa.ca.gov/SiteCleanup/CorteseList/
       7. http://earth.google.com/ (Used for distances to community resources).




                                                                                           30
Appendix A - Draft CEQA Initial Study/Environmental Checklist
                   DRAFT
Initial Study and Notice of Intent to Adopt a
     Mitigated Negative Declaration
  Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
      City of El Centro, California



                      Prepared for:




                     City of El Centro
                   1275 W. Main Street
                   El Centro, CA 92243
                       760.337.4543

       Contacts: Rosie Blankenship, Assistant Planner
     Stacy R. Cox, Community Development Specialist I




                       Prepared by:

             Michael Brandman Associates
             340 S. Farrell Drive Suite A-210
                Palm Springs, CA 92262
                     760.322.8847

         Contact: Jon Braginton, Project Manager




                      April 16, 2009
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                                              Table of Contents



                                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section 1: Introduction .......................................................................................................1
      1.5 - Purpose .............................................................................................................1
      1.6 - Project Location.................................................................................................1
      1.7 - Project Description.............................................................................................1
      1.8 - Intended Uses of this Document ........................................................................2
      1.9 - Environmental Setting........................................................................................2
Section 2: Environmental Checklist.................................................................................10
Section 3: Discussion of Environmental Evaluation ......................................................20
      3.5 - Aesthetics........................................................................................................20
      3.6 - Agricultural Resources.....................................................................................26
      3.7 - Air Quality........................................................................................................26
      3.8 - Biological Resources .......................................................................................37
      3.9 - Cultural Resources ..........................................................................................39
      3.10 - Geology and Soils..........................................................................................40
      3.11 - Hazards and Hazardous Materials.................................................................42
      3.12 - Hydrology and Water Quality .........................................................................43
      3.13 - Land Use and Planning .................................................................................46
      3.14 - Mineral Resources.........................................................................................46
      3.15 - Noise .............................................................................................................47
      3.16 - Population and Housing.................................................................................50
      3.17 - Public Services ..............................................................................................50
      3.18 - Recreation .....................................................................................................51
      3.19 - Transportation/Traffic.....................................................................................52
      3.20 - Utilities and Service Systems.........................................................................54
      3.21 - Mandatory Findings of Significance ...............................................................56
Section 4: References.......................................................................................................57
Section 5: List of Preparers..............................................................................................58


                                                                  LIST OF TABLES

Table 1: Operational Emissions (Summer, Unmitigated) .....................................................27
Table 2: Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions ...............................................................36
Table 3: Maximum Allowable Noise Level Limits .................................................................48




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                                      i
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                                            Table of Contents



                                                                 LIST OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit 1: Regional Location ..................................................................................................5
Exhibit 2: Local Vicinity Topographical Map ..........................................................................6
Exhibit 3: Local Vicinity Aerial Map........................................................................................7
Exhibit 4: Existing Conditions ................................................................................................8
Exhibit 5: Conceptual Site Plan .............................................................................................9
Exhibit 6a: Site Photographs 1 and 2 ..................................................................................22
Exhibit 6b: Site Photographs 3 and 4 ..................................................................................23
Exhibit 6c: Site Photographs 5 and 6...................................................................................24
Exhibit 6d: Site Photographs 7 and 8 ..................................................................................25


                                                            LIST OF APPENDICES

Appendix A: Air Quality Background Information and Model Output
Appendix B: Historic Resources Assessment
Appendix C: KOA Traffic Study




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                                   ii
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                             Introduction



SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION

1.5 - Purpose

The City of El Centro, as Lead Agency, has prepared this Initial Study (IS) to evaluate potential
environmental impacts associated with the proposed demolition of the aquatic recreational facilities
and the development of the Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex ("project" or "proposed project");
and to present strategies that will lessen such impacts. This document satisfies the requirements set
forth in the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), and is the environmental document
prepared pursuant to the provisions of CEQA, Public Resources Code 21000, et. seq. for
consideration in conjunction with the proposed project. City officials and responsible agencies will
use this document as an aid for making sound planning decisions.

1.6 - Project Location

The project site is located in the City of El Centro, in the County of Imperial, California
(See Exhibit 1 ­ Regional Location). Specifically, the project location is on the southeast corner of
Adams Avenue and North 8th Street. Its boundaries are Adams Avenue to the north, 7th Street to the
east, Park Avenue to the south, and North 8th Street to the west (See Exhibit 2 ­ Project Vicinity).
The project site is a 2.35-acre parcel of developed land identified as (APN) 053-031-004 that is zoned
LU, limited use. The location is urban, and surrounded on all sides by development. To the north is
the Premier Inn, northeast is high density residential housing; east is a public park, southeast is
conventional single-family homes, and southwest are commercial businesses (See Exhibit 3 ­ Local
Aerial).

1.7 - Project Description

According to the City's Parks and Recreation Master Plan (September 18, 2008) the Adams Avenue
Indoor Sports Complex is the first project recommended for Phase I (within the next 5 years) of the
City's long-range plan for parks and recreation facilities. The Conrad Harrison Youth Center' will
remain at its current location. Redevelopment plans are proposed to work around the gymnasium
building. Exhibit 3 and Exhibit 4 show the existing conditions on the project site.

The proposed project includes the replacement of the existing aquatic recreational facility with a
multi-purpose indoor sports field complex (see Exhibit 5, Conceptual Site Plan). The plans include
demolition of two existing swimming pools, bathroom/shower facilities, shaded bleachers, and a large
façade facing North 8th Street. The site will be graded to street level (approximately 4 feet maximum
cut) to allow for proper site drainage.

The indoor sports complex includes a multi-sport field, courts and bleachers, all enclosed within a
200-foot by 110-foot structural membrane (22,000 square feet), playing fields artificial turf, and


Michael Brandman Associates                                                                             1
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                                     Introduction


landscaping around the site will be low water using drought-tolerant plants. The project also includes
construction of a one-story structure that will be the main entrance for the existing gymnasium and
the new sports complex. This new structure will include bathroom/shower facilities, an office, a
kitchen/concession stand, and ticket booth and maintenance storage with covered walkways
connecting to the existing gym and the proposed sports complex. Proposed parking will consist of
118 off-street parking stalls located abutting perpendicular to the north side of Park Avenue, along the
south side (existing) of the gymnasium, and east of the existing gym.

The project is proposed to be built in three phases.

                     Phase I is the installation of the membrane structure, covered walkways and the
                        construction of the one-story structure. Most cut and fill grading will be completed
                        during this phase, and 26 parking spaces will be installed along Park Avenue;

                     Phase II includes the installation of the sports equipment and artificial turf in the
                        membrane structure; and

                     Phase III includes the development of the parking lot proposed along North 7 Street
                                                                                                        th


                        and off-street parking along Park Avenue.

In addition to the project description presented above, all zoning ordinances, permit requirements of
responsible agencies, and the mitigation measures included in this environmental document will be
made conditions of approval (COA).

1.8 - Intended Uses of this Document

This document satisfies CEQA requirements for environmental evaluation of a proposed project
where a discretionary action is required. In this case, the discretionary action is a Conditional Use
Permit (CUP) for operation of the planned facilities. CEQA requires that any qualifying project on
which a municipality needs to exercise discretionary authority must first prepare an
assessment/evaluation of the environment to determine the potential impacts of the project. This IS
and Notice of Intent (NOI) to Adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) are informational
documents intended to inform the City of El Centro decision makers, responsible agencies, and
interested parties of the potential environmental effects of the proposed project and allow them to
provide comments to be considered by the City Council in their review and consideration of the
project.

1.9 - Environmental Setting

A field visit and windshield survey was conducted on January 7, 2009 by MBA staff to document
existing conditions on the site and in the general area. Exhibit 6 ­ Site Photographs is representative
of the photograph record collected on that day. The following is a description of the existing
conditions.

Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                    2
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                              Introduction


Aesthetics - The site is set in an urban area characterized by low profile structures and mature
vegetation. The site character blends well with the surrounding businesses and residences. The
existing façade of the recreation building reflects the style of the pioneer days of the City, and was
built in 1982 to emulate a historic structure that had been destroyed at an earlier date. The Conrad
Harrison Youth Center gym is the tallest and largest building on the block. The State of California
Youth Authority (CYA) funded it and the building was dedicated in 1994.

Agricultural Resources ­ Although El Centro houses agricultural processing facilities, the project
area is urban and does not contain any agricultural resources.

Air Quality ­ The project area is currently in State non-attainment status for the criteria pollutants
Ozone, particulate matter (PM). Air quality is primarily affected by vehicle, agricultural burning and
processing emissions that are trapped by an inversion layer in the atmosphere. An Air Quality
Attainment Plan is currently being implemented b7 the County's Air Pollution Control District
(APCD) that contains both standard and discretionary minimization measures. There are no point
source emitters affecting the project.

Biological Resources ­ Due to the urban environment, there are no sensitive biological resources in
the project site or surroundings.

Cultural Resources ­ The site was reviewed by an MBA archaeologist who specializes in historic
architecture. Due to prior disturbances and modern developments onsite, there is very low potential
to find cultural resources. There are no known historic, prehistoric or paleontological resources
onsite.

Geology/Soils ­ Although no soil borings have been done on the project site, the entire City rests on a
bed of deep lacustrine (lakebed) deposits. Although the soil is suitable for agriculture, it presents
challenges for engineers on construction projects. The soils of this type typically need conditioning
to support structural footings including reinforced foundations with steel to prevent warping and
buckling.

Hazards/Hazardous Materials ­ The prior land use as a community swimming pool included pool
chemical storage, regulated by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). However,
no known chemical spills have occurred onsite.

Hydrology and Water Quality ­ Currently the site drains to the east of the premises. The site drains
into storm drains off site.

Land Use ­ The aquatic facility portion of the existing complex is not in service. However, the
Conrad Harrison Youth Center gymnasium continues to operate under normal business hours.




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                              3
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Introduction


Mineral Resources ­ There are no known mineral resources onsite, and extraction of minerals will be
inappropriate at the location.

Noise ­ Land uses in the project area are primarily commercial, which is not considered noise
sensitive; however, there is a residential neighborhood to the south. The greatest source of noise in
the vicinity is attributed to traffic along Adams Avenue and 8th Street.

Population/Housing ­ Multiple family housing exists in the project area. The project site is located
in the downtown region with a population density greater than average for the City as a whole.

Public Services ­ El Centro provides a full compliment of public services to the project area, which
currently provides services to the Conrad Harrison Youth Center.

Recreation ­ The project site is currently in stages of dilapidation with the closure of the site's
aquatic swimming pool, and with only the Youth Center remaining operational to the public.

Traffic ­ Current access to the project site is entered from off of Park Avenue (a 2-lane collector)
between North 7th Street North 8Th Street. The project site also abuts Adams Avenue to the north,
which is a 4-lane Divided Arterial.

Utilities/Service Systems ­ A full compliment of utilities are available onsite.




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                              4
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
                                                        Salton

                           Salton Sea
                                                         Sea
                                                                                    }
                                                                                    þ
                                                                                    |
                                                                                    ·
                                                                                    111




                           Project Site

      Text                                      !
      Text
   Not to Scale


                                     þ
                                     }
                                     |
                                     ·   86




                                                                                    Brawley
                                                                                                þ
                                                                                                }
                                                                                                |
                                                                                                · 78
                                                                                                                      }
                                                                                                                      þ
                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                      ·78




                                                                  þ
                                                                  }
                                                                  |
                                                                  ·98
                                                                                      }
                                                                                      þ
                                                                                      |
                                                                                      ·   111




                                                                                                           þ
                                                                                                           }
                                                                                                           |
                                                                                                           ·
                                                                                                           115

                                                                                          Project Site


                                                                    ! El Centro
                                  §
                                  ¦
                                  ¨  8




                                                                                                Calexico
                                              þ
                                              }
                                              |
                                              ·98




                                                                 M E X I C O
Source: Census 2000 Data, The CaSIL, MBA GIS 2009.

                                                                                                                    Exhibit 1
                  NORTH




                              5               2.5   0                   5

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                                            Miles
                                                                                                           Regional Location
27990026 · 01/2009 | 1_regional.mxd                                         CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                                        INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                                EL CENTRO




                                      Project Site




                                                                                                         Project Site

Source: TOPO! USGS El Centro (1979) 7.5' DRG.


                                                                                               Exhibit 2
                 NORTH




                            2,000     1,000     0           2,000

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                               Feet      Local Vicinity Topographic Map
27990026 · 01/2009 | 2_local_vicinity.mxd                     CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                          INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
                                                                   Adams Ave
                                               N 8th St




                                                                    Park Ave




                                                                                             N 7th St
          Project Site

Source: Google Earth Aerial (2009).                                                                        WC       i lA


                                                                                                                         Exhibit 3
                 NORTH




                              150      75           0     150

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                            Feet                                        Local Vicinity Aerial Map
27990026 · 03/2009 | 3_local_aerial_landscape.mxd                              CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                                           INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Source: Fuscoe Engineering, Inc. (December 9, 2008).

                                                                                                       Exhibit 4
               NORTH




                         60       30        0          60

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                         Feet
                                                                                             Existing Conditions
27990026 · 03/2009 | 4_Ex_Conditions.ai                         CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                            INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Source: T&B Planning (October 30, 2008).

                                                                                             Exhibit 5
               NORTH




                         50       25       0   50

Michael Brandman Associates
                                                 Feet
                                                                                  Conceptual Site Plan
27990026 · 03/2009 | 5_Site_Plan.ai                     CITY OF EL CENTRO · ADAMS AVENUE INDOOR SPORTS COMPLEX
                                                                    INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Environmental Checklist



SECTION 2: ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST

                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                       Potentially             Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                 No
                            Environmental Issues                       Significant             Significant
                                                                                      With                   Impact
                                                                         Impact                  Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
  1.      Aesthetics
         Would the project:
         a) Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic
            vista?
         b) Substantially damage scenic resources,
            including, but not limited to, trees, rock
            outcroppings, and historic building within a
            state scenic highway?
         c) Substantially degrade the existing visual
            character or quality of the site and its
            surroundings?
         d) Create a new source of substantial light or glare
            which would adversely affect day or nighttime
            views in the area?
  2.      Agriculture Resources
         In determining whether impacts to agricultural resources are significant environmental effects, lead
         agencies may refer to the California Agricultural Land Evaluation and Site Assessment Model (1997)
         prepared by the California Department of Conservation as an optional model to use in assessing
         impacts on agriculture and farmland.
         Would the project:
         a) Convert Prime Farmland, Unique Farmland, or
            Farmland of Statewide Importance (Farmland),
            as shown on the maps prepared pursuant to the
            Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program
            (FMMP) of the California Resources Agency, to
            non-agricultural use?
         b) Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural
            use, or a Williamson Act contract?
         c) Involve other changes in the existing
            environment which, due to their location or
            nature, could result in conversion of Farmland,
            to non-agricultural use?
  3.      Air Quality
         Where available, the significance criteria established by the applicable air quality management or air
         pollution control district may be relied upon to make the following determinations.
         Would the project:
         a) Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the
            applicable air quality plan?
         b) Violate any air quality standard or contribute
            substantially to an existing or projected air
            quality violation?




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                        10
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Environmental Checklist


                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                       Potentially             Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                 No
                            Environmental Issues                       Significant             Significant
                                                                                      With                   Impact
                                                                         Impact                  Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
         c) Result in a cumulatively considerable net
            increase of any criteria pollutant for which the
            project region is non-attainment under an
            applicable federal or state ambient air quality
            standard (including releasing emissions, which
            exceed quantitative thresholds for ozone
            precursors)?
         d) Expose sensitive receptors to substantial
            pollutant concentrations?
         e) Create objectionable odors affecting a
            substantial number of people?
         f) Result in an increase in greenhouse gas
            emissions that would significantly hinder or
            delay the State's ability to meet the reduction
            targets contained in AB 32?
  4.      Biological Resources
         Would the project:
         a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly
            or through habitat modifications, on any species
            identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special
            status species in local or regional plans, policies,
            or regulations, or by the California Department
            of Fish and Game (CDFG) or U.S. Fish and
            Wildlife Service (USFWS)?
         b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian
            habitat or other sensitive natural community
            identified in local or regional plans, policies,
            and regulations or by the CDFG or USFWS?
         c) Have a substantial adverse effect on federally
            protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of
            the Clean Water Act (including, but not limited
            to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through
            direct removal, filling, hydrological
            interruption, or other means?
         d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any
            native resident or migratory fish or wildlife
            species or with established native resident or
            migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use
            of wildlife nursery sites?
         e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances
            protecting biological resources, such as a tree
            preservation policy or ordinance?




Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                        11
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Environmental Checklist


                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                       Potentially             Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                 No
                            Environmental Issues                       Significant             Significant
                                                                                      With                   Impact
                                                                         Impact                  Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
         f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted
            Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP), Natural
            Community Conservation Plan, or other
            approved local, regional, or state habitat
            conservation plan?
  5.      Cultural Resources
         Would the project:
         a) Cause a substantial adverse change in the
            significance of a historical resource as defined
            in §15064.5?
         b) Cause a substantial adverse change in the
            significance of an archaeological resource
            pursuant to §15064.5?
         c) Directly or indirectly destroy a unique
            paleontological resource or site or unique
            geologic feature?
         d) Disturb any human remains, including those
            interred outside of formal cemeteries?
  6.      Geology / Soils
         Would the project:
         a) Expose people or structures to potential
            substantial adverse effects, including the risk of
            loss, injury or death involving:
               i)      Rupture of a known earthquake fault, as
                       delineated on the most recent Alquist-
                       Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Map
                       issued by the State Geologist for the area
                       or based on other substantial evidence of a
                       known fault? Refer to Division of Mines
                       and Geology Special Publication 42.
               ii)     Strong seismic ground shaking?
               iii)    Seismic-related ground failure, including
                       liquefaction?
               iv)     Landslides?
         b) Result in substantial soil erosion or the loss of
            topsoil?
         c) Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is
            unstable, or that would become unstable as a
            result of the project and potentially result in on-
            or off-site landslide, lateral spreading,
            subsidence, liquefaction or collapse?
         d) Be located on expansive soil, as defined in
            Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building Code
            (1994), creating substantial risks to life or


Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                        12
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Environmental Checklist


                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                       Potentially             Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                 No
                            Environmental Issues                       Significant             Significant
                                                                                      With                   Impact
                                                                         Impact                  Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
               property?
         e) Have soils incapable of adequately supporting
            the use of septic tanks or alternative wastewater
            disposal systems where sewers are not available
            for the disposal of wastewater?
  7.      Hazards / Hazardous Materials
         Would the project:
         a) Create a significant hazard to the public or the
            environment through the routine transport, use,
            or disposal of hazardous materials?
         b) Create a significant hazard to the public or the
            environment through reasonably foreseeable
            upset and accident conditions involving the
            likely release of hazardous materials into the
            environment?
         c) Emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous
            or acutely hazardous materials, substances, or
            waste within one-quarter mile of an existing or
            proposed school?
         d) Be located on a site which is included on a list
            of hazardous materials sites compiled pursuant
            to Government Code Section 65962.5 and, as a
            result, would it create a significant hazard to the
            public or the environment?
         e) For a project located within an airport land use
            plan or, where such a plan has not been adopted,
            within two miles of a public airport or public
            use airport, would the project result in a safety
            hazard for people residing or working the
            project area?
         f) For a project within the vicinity of a private
            airstrip, would the project result in a safety
            hazard for people residing or working in the
            project area?
         g) Impair implementation of or physically interfere
            with an adopted emergency response plan or
            emergency evacuation plan?
         h) Expose people or structures to a significant risk
            of loss, injury or death involving wildland fires,
            including where wildlands are adjacent to
            urbanized areas or where residences are
            intermixed with wildlands?
  8.      Hydrology / Water Quality
         Would the project:
         a) Violate any water quality standards or waste
            discharge requirements?

Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                        13
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
City of El Centro ­ Adams Avenue Indoor Sports Complex
Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration                                               Environmental Checklist


                                                                                   Less Than
                                                                       Potentially             Less Than
                                                                                   Significant                 No
                            Environmental Issues                       Significant             Significant
                                                                                      With                   Impact
                                                                         Impact                  Impact
                                                                                   Mitigation
         b) Substantially deplete groundwater supplies or
            interfere substantially with groundwater
            recharge such that there would be a net deficit in
            aquifer volume or a lowering of the local
            groundwater table level (e.g., the production
            rate of pre-existing nearby wells would drop to a
            level which would not support existing land
            uses or planned uses for which permits have
            been granted?
         c) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern
            of area, including through the alteration of the
            course of a stream or river, in a manner, which
            would result in substantial erosion or siltation
            on- or off-site?
         d) Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern
            of the site or area, including through the
            alteration of the course of a stream or river, or
            substantially increase the rate or amount of
            surface runoff in a manner, which would result
            in flooding on- or off-site?
         e) Create or contribute runoff water, which would
            exceed the capacity of existing or planned
            stormwater drainage systems or provide
            substantial additional sources of polluted
            runoff?
         f) Otherwise substantially degrade water quality?
         g) Place housing within a 100-year flood hazard
            area as mapped on a federal Flood Hazard
            Boundary or Flood Insurance Rate Map or other
            flood hazard delineation map?
         h) Place within a 100-year flood hazard area
            structures, which would impede or redirect
            flood flows?
         i) Expose people or structures to a significant risk
            of loss, injury or death involving flooding,
            including flooding as a result of the failure of a
            levee or dam?
         j) Inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow?
  9.      Land Use / Planning
         Would the project:
         a) Physically divide an established community?
         b) Conflict with any applicable land use plan,
            policy, or regulation of an agency with
            jurisdiction over the project (including, but not
            limited to the general plan, specific plan, local
            coastal program, or zoning ordinance) adopted


Michael Brandman Associates                                                                                        14
H:\Client\2799-City of El Centro\2799.0026 Initial Study 4-16-09.doc
                                                                  True Count
                                                                 3401 First Ave #123
                                                                San Diego, CA 92103

                                                                                                             File Name    : 9004.01.8TH ST.ADAMS AVE
                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date   : 1/14/2009
                                                                                                             Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                            8TH ST                      ADAMS AVE                     8TH ST                           ADAMS AVE
                          Southbound                    Westbound                   Northbound                          Eastbound
     Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Peds   Left    Thru    Right   Peds   Left   Thru   Right   Peds      Left      Thru   Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00      18       35       5      0      6      52       12      1      7     21       2      2        5         59       3      1       229
        07:15      26       55       9      1      6      77       14      3      8     35       3      0       11         56       7      1       312
        07:30      37       70      13      0     19     121       35      0     13     52       7      4       19         87      21      0       498
        07:45      46       88       8      0     14     139       36      0     12     65      14      0       27        127      16      0       592
         Total    127      248      35      1     45     389       97      4     40    173      26      6       62        329      47      2      1631

        08:00      40       81      17      0     12     116       27      0     22     49       7      0       12        123      22      0       528
        08:15      25       50      10      0     13     100       19      0     22     53       2      0        6         84      10      1       395
        08:30      28       36       5      0      3      90       20      1     22     52       8      1        6         75      19      1       367
        08:45      19       41       3      1     12      97       17      0     18     48      10      0        7         81      18      0       372
         Total    112      208      35      1     40     403       83      1     84    202      27      1       31        363      69      2      1662

*** BREAK ***

        16:00      60       71       9      2     14     144       37      5     32     76       6      4        7        139      27      3       636
        16:15      49      103       3      1      9     138       41      0     17     79       5      0        7        150      23      8       633
        16:30      49       80       6      1     14     143       28      3     24     60      10      2        9        162      19      0       610
        16:45      42       77      12      2     18     168       54      0     29     60       8      2       14        142      19      2       649
         Total    200      331      30      6     55     593      160      8    102    275      29      8       37        593      88     13      2528

        17:00      45       90       7      0     10     166       60      2     35    116      20      2       10        149      28      4       744
        17:15      45       54      12      4     14     161       50      0     36    113       6      0       14        132      15      3       659
        17:30      44       72       8      3     12     130       54      8     25     53       8      0       15        146      21      4       603
        17:45      30       65       6      0      7     145       37      2     52     52       7      0       11        163      18      0       595
         Total    164      281      33      7     43     602      201     12    148    334      41      2       50        590      82     11      2601

  Grand Total      603    1068    133      15    183    1987      541     25    374     984   123      17      180     1875       286     28      8422
    Apprch %      33.2     58.7    7.3    0.8     6.7    72.6    19.8    0.9      25   65.7    8.2    1.1       7.6     79.1     12.1    1.2
      Total %       7.2    12.7    1.6    0.2     2.2    23.6      6.4   0.3     4.4   11.7    1.5    0.2       2.1     22.3       3.4   0.3
                                                                  True Count
                                                                 3401 First Ave #123
                                                                San Diego, CA 92103

                                                                                                              File Name    : 9004.02.7TH ST.ADAMS AVE
                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date   : 1/14/2009
                                                                                                              Page No      :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                            7TH ST                      ADAMS AVE                     7TH ST                            ADAMS AVE
                          Southbound                    Westbound                   Northbound                           Eastbound
     Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Peds   Left    Thru    Right   Peds    Left   Thru   Right   Peds      Left      Thru   Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00        0       1       1       2    3       85        1      0       0       0      1      2        1         71       1      8       177
        07:15        1       1       1       4    1      104        1      0       2       2      2      1        2         82       3      3       210
        07:30        3       2      12       1    4      157        6      0       1       1      3      4        3        125       2      6       330
        07:45        3       0      13       1    4      191        2      0       3       1      6      6        7        183       2      2       424
         Total       7       4      27       8   12      537       10      0       6       4     12     13       13        461       8     19      1141

        08:00        1       0       5       1    2      155        0      0       1       1      1       0       9        171       8      3       358
        08:15        1       0       4       0    5      126        5      0       2       1      2       0       4        109       3      0       262
        08:30        0       1       1       0    6      109        0      0       1       0      0       0       0        122       0      0       240
        08:45        2       0       4       1    2      130        2      0       3       0      1       1       1        114       5      1       267
         Total       4       1      14       2   15      520        7      0       7       2      4       1      14        516      16      4      1127

*** BREAK ***

        16:00        0       1       4       5    2      182        1      0       4       0      3       2       3        197      11      3       418
        16:15        3       2       7       0    2      199        6      0       0       0      1       1       6        199       5      1       432
        16:30        3       1       5       3    3      178        2      0       3       1      2       1       3        201       6      1       413
        16:45        1       5       8       1    4      239        1      1       2       1      4       1       5        184       3      2       462
         Total       7       9      24       9   11      798       10      1       9       2     10       5      17        781      25      7      1725

        17:00        1       0       4       2     2     235        4      0       2       1      0       3       3        210       2      3       472
        17:15        1       0       3       0     3     239        4      0       0       1      2       2       6        178       7      2       448
        17:30        1       1       6       2     2     196        3      0       2       2      0       2       4        196       4      4       425
        17:45        4       0       4       1     2     189        1      0       0       0      3       2       6        200       4      1       417
         Total       7       1      17       5     9     859       12      0       4       4      5       9      19        784      17     10      1762

  Grand Total       25      15      82      24    47    2714       39      1      26      12     31      28       63    2542        66     40      5755
    Apprch %      17.1    10.3    56.2    16.4   1.7     96.9     1.4      0    26.8    12.4     32    28.9      2.3     93.8      2.4    1.5
      Total %      0.4     0.3     1.4     0.4   0.8     47.2     0.7      0     0.5     0.2    0.5     0.5      1.1     44.2      1.1    0.7
                                                                   True Count
                                                                  3401 First Ave #123
                                                                 San Diego, CA 92103

                                                                                                               File Name    : 9004.03.7TH ST.PARK AVE
                                                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date   : 1/14/2009
                                                                                                               Page No      :1


                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                            7TH ST                       PARK AVE                      7TH ST                          PARK AVE
                          Southbound                     Westbound                   Northbound                        Eastbound
     Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Peds    Left    Thru    Right   Peds    Left   Thru   Right   Peds    Left   Thru     Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00        0       2       2      1       2       0        0       3      2      1       0      2       0      1         0      3         19
        07:15        1       4       0      5       2       3        1       1      0      3       0      1       0      2         0      1         24
        07:30        0       8       0      5       0       1        0       3      0      6       1      4       0      3         3      1         35
        07:45        2       6       0      4       0       8        4       1      2      5       0      3       0      8         1      5         49
         Total       3      20       2     15       4      12        5       8      4     15       1     10       0     14         4     10        127

        08:00        4       5       0       1      0       3        2       1      0       1      1       0      1      8         2      0          29
        08:15        0       5       0       2      1       1        2       2      0       2      1       0      0      4         0      0          20
        08:30        1       6       0       2      0       0        0       0      0       3      0       0      0      3         0      0          15
        08:45        0       4       1       0      1       4        0       1      1       2      0       0      1      3         4      0          22
         Total       5      20       1       5      2       8        4       4      1       8      2       0      2     18         6      0          86

*** BREAK ***

        16:00        2      11       0       3      1       3        0      2       0      8       1       4      0      6         0      1         42
        16:15        1       5       0       0      1       1        0      8       2      1       0       1      0      5         0      2         27
        16:30        1       7       1       2      2       3        0      4       0      6       0       2      0      5         1      1         35
        16:45        2       7       2       1      0       2        1      4       0      5       1       2      0      8         2      3         40
         Total       6      30       3       6      4       9        1     18       2     20       2       9      0     24         3      7        144

        17:00        2       2       0       3      2       2        0      3       0      2       2      3       0      2         0      3         26
        17:15        2       8       2       1      1       6        1      3       1      2       0      5       2      5         1      3         43
        17:30        1       6       0       0      0       6        0      8       0      3       0      6       0      5         4      2         41
        17:45        1       4       1       1      0       6        0      2       4      3       0      5       0      1         1      1         30
         Total       6      20       3       5      3      20        1     16       5     10       2     19       2     13         6      9        140

  Grand Total       20      90       9      31     13      49       11      46     12      53      7      38      4      69      19      26        497
    Apprch %      13.3      60       6    20.7   10.9    41.2      9.2    38.7   10.9    48.2    6.4    34.5    3.4    58.5    16.1      22
      Total %        4    18.1     1.8     6.2    2.6     9.9      2.2     9.3    2.4    10.7    1.4     7.6    0.8    13.9     3.8     5.2
                                                                 True Count
                                                                3401 First Ave #123
                                                               San Diego, CA 92103

                                                                                                             File Name    : 9004.04.8TH ST.PARK AVE
                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date   : 1/14/2009
                                                                                                             Page No      :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           8TH ST                      PARK AVE                      8TH ST                          PARK AVE
                         Southbound                    Westbound                   Northbound                        Eastbound
     Start Time   Left    Thru   Right   Peds   Left    Thru    Right   Peds   Left    Thru   Right   Peds    Left   Thru     Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00       1      31       1      0      0       2        2       0    0       38       0      2       0      1         3       2        83
        07:15       0      60       1      0      1       0        0       2    4       46       0      2       1      0         3       2       122
        07:30       1     108       4      3      3       0        0       1    2       89       0      4       2      4         6       3       230
        07:45       2     123       5      2      1       6        3       0    6      111       2      0       1      6         6       1       275
         Total      4     322      11      5      5       8        5       3   12      284       2      8       4     11        18       8       710

        08:00       3     118       4      5      0       3        0       1    2       76       0      0       4      8         7       0       231
        08:15       1      66       0      4      0       0        1       2    6       72       2      0       2      3         3       0       162
        08:30       0      63       4      1      0       0        0       0    4       69       1      1       0      0         3       0       146
        08:45       3      78       2      3      0       2        2       0    2       79       1      2       3      1         2       0       180
         Total      7     325      10     13      0       5        3       3   14      296       4      3       9     12        15       0       719

*** BREAK ***

        16:00      4      111       3      1      0       2        3       1    3      112       2      3      2          2      7       2      258
        16:15      2      128       1      1      0       1        2       0    6      107       5      0      5          4      6       1      269
        16:30      3      112       1      1      1       0        1       2    5       96       3      0      3          2      2       1      233
        16:45      5      119       2      1      1       0        1       0    4       99       3      0      2          0      1       2      240
         Total    14      470       7      4      2       3        7       3   18      414      13      3     12          8     16       6     1000

        17:00       1     127       0      1      0       1        0      6     6      153       2      1      3          0      6       0      307
        17:15       2      82       0      4      1       2        5      4     6      137       2      3      2          3      4       1      258
        17:30       2     108       1      6      0       6        2      7     6       84       1      1      2          4      6       5      241
        17:45       1      96       1      0      1       4        4      3     5       97       3      0      3          1      6       1      226
         Total      6     413       2     11      2      13       11     20    23      471       8      5     10          8     22       7     1032

  Grand Total      31    1530      30     33      9      29       26      29    67    1465      27     19      35      39       71      21     3461
    Apprch %      1.9     94.2    1.8      2    9.7    31.2       28    31.2   4.2     92.8    1.7    1.2    21.1    23.5     42.8    12.7
      Total %     0.9     44.2    0.9      1    0.3     0.8      0.8     0.8   1.9     42.3    0.8    0.5       1     1.1      2.1     0.6
