Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
Concept Report
ITD Project No. A011(657), Key No. 11657




Prepared for

City of Pocatello
P.O. Box 4169
Pocatello, ID 83205-4169




Prepared by

Parametrix
7761 W Riverside Drive, Suite 201
Boise, ID 83714-5044
T. 208.898.0012 F. 208.947.1655
www.parametrix.com
                                                                                                         Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                                                Concept Report
                                                                                                                                   City of Pocatello




TABLE OF CONTENTS


            ITD FORM 783

            1. BACKGROUND...................................................................................................1

            2. EXISTING CONDITIONS.....................................................................................1

            3. OUTREACH ........................................................................................................6

            4. INITIAL ALTERNATIVES ....................................................................................7

            5. MODIFIED ALTERNATIVES .............................................................................10

            6. ALTERNATIVE PHASING.................................................................................12

            7. FINAL ALTERNATIVES ....................................................................................12

            8. PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES ...........................................................13

            9. RECOMMENDATION ........................................................................................13

            10. CONCLUSION...................................................................................................14

  LIST OF FIGURES
            Figure 1. Project Vicinity .......................................................................................................... 2
            Figure 2. Project Study Area ..................................................................................................... 3

  LIST OF TABLES
            Table 1. 2010 Existing Peak Hour............................................................................................. 5
            Table 2. Crash Analysis Results................................................................................................ 6
            Table 3. VISSIM Analysis - 2035 Peak Hour ......................................................................... 11
            Table 4. Evaluation Matrix Grading Results........................................................................... 14




December 2010 | A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                          ii
                                                                  Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                         Concept Report
                                                                                         City of Pocatello



APPENDICES
            APPENDIX A - 757, 2708, AND 280
            APPENDIX B - TRAFFIC REPORT
            APPENDIX C - INITIAL INTERSECTION DESIGN LAYOUTS
            APPENDIX D - ALTERNATIVE 8
            APPENDIX E - PHASING PLANS
            APPENDIX F - BTPO MASTER BICYCLE PLAN
            APPENDIX G - COMPILED PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT COMMENTS
            APPENDIX H - STAKEHOLDER LETTERS
            APPENDIX I - PROPOSED ALTERNATIVES
            APPENDIX J - EVALUATION MATRIX
            APPENDIX K - ITD FORM 758, ITD FORM 1150, CONSTRUCTION COSTS, AND
                          ITD FORM 2839 FOR EACH PROPOSED ALTERNATIVE
            APPENDIX L - ENVIRONMENTAL SCAN
            APPENDIX M - GEOTECHNICAL REPORTS
            APPENDIX N ­ CONTOUR MAP


 ACRONYMS
            ADT ­ Average Daily Traffic
            BTPO ­ Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
            FIS ­ Flood Insurance Study
            ITD ­ Idaho Transportation Department
            LOS ­ Level of Service
            NHS ­ National Highway System
            NEPA ­ National Environmental Policy Act




December 2010 | A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                               iii
                                                                            Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                   Concept Report
                                                                                                   City of Pocatello




1.     BACKGROUND
The Alameda Road and Jefferson Avenue intersection is a skewed four leg signalized intersection in
Pocatello, Idaho (Figure 1). Due to the location and skew, the intersection actually is the intersecting
point of four streets; Alameda Road on the west leg, Pocatello Creek Road on the east leg, Jefferson
Avenue on the south leg, and Hiline Road on the north leg. For clarity, this intersection will be referred
to as the Alameda/Jefferson intersection in this report. In addition to being key local arterials, Alameda
Road and Pocatello Creek Road serve as part of the Interstate 15 (I-15) business loop, but are not part of
the National Highway System. Adjacent to the Alameda/Jefferson intersection are the Jefferson/E.
Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections. Both of these intersections are three leg intersections,
stop controlled on the local road and located within the influence area of the Alameda/Jefferson
intersection.
Today, vehicles traveling through the Alameda/Jefferson intersection experience significant delay from
heavy traffic volumes and closely spaced adjacent intersections. A total of 43 vehicle collisions have
occurred at intersections in the study area between January 2004 and December 2008. Because of these
conditions, the City of Pocatello is exploring options to improve safety and mobility in the study area.
The City of Pocatello and the Bannock Transportation Planning Organization (BTPO) have identified
this intersection (Alameda/Jefferson) as their top priority for improvement.
The purpose of this project is to improve the safety and mobility for vehicles, pedestrians, and
bicyclists. The need of this project is to provide additional capacity for the intersections, implement
access management, and add pedestrian and bicycle facilities.


2.     EXISTING CONDITIONS
The intersections included in the study area are (Figure 2):
   ·   Alameda Road/Jefferson Avenue (signalized)
   ·   Jefferson Avenue/E. Alameda Road (approximately 200 feet south of Alameda/Jefferson; stop
       controlled on E. Alameda Road)
   ·   Pocatello Creek Road/Deon Drive (approximately 350 feet east of Alameda/Jefferson; stop
       controlled on Deon Drive)

Land Use
The project area is surrounded by commercial and residential development, as well as the Tendoy
Elementary School located at the Jefferson/E. Alameda intersection. Commercial development includes
a Maverick gas station on the southwest corner, an Exxon Mobil gas station with a small strip mall on
the northwest corner, a shopping center with various businesses (including Winco) on the northeast
corner, and an LDS Church on the southeast corner across from the elementary school.
Some of the business access points are very close to the Alameda/Jefferson intersection, which often
cause conflicts with the through traffic. Some access management measures have been implemented,
including installation of a raised concrete median on Alameda Road just west of Jefferson Avenue that
limits access to a right-in/right-out movement at Alameda and Randolph. However, there are still
considerable access issues in the study area. The area is generally developed with the exception of
vacant lots on the west side of the church, which was formerly a gas station, and the south side of the
Maverick gas station. It is reasonable to expect some commercial redevelopment may occur over the
next twenty years.


December 2010 | A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                          1
                                           Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                  Concept Report
                                                                  City of Pocatello




                                             Figure 1. Project Vicinity
December 2010 | A011(657), Key No. 11657                                         2
                                           Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                  Concept Report
                                                                  City of Pocatello




                                          Figure 2. Project Study Area


December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                          3
                                                                              Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                     Concept Report
                                                                                                     City of Pocatello



Utilities
Several utilities are located within the project limits, including underground gas lines, city water, sewer,
and drainage facilities, overhead and underground phone lines, and overhead and underground power
lines. Idaho Power has a large transmission line that runs north and south along Jefferson Avenue and
Hiline Road. The transmission line is located within a private Idaho Power easement. There are two very
large steel power poles located at the northwest and southwest corners of the Alameda/Jefferson
intersection.
Environmental
An environmental scan was prepared to identify any constraints within the project vicinity for the
natural and built environment. The report analyzed socioeconomics, parks and recreation areas, historic
resources, geology & soils, hazardous materials, threatened and endangered species, air quality, and
wetlands within the study area. None of the elements were found to have significant concerns. However,
Pocatello Creek, which runs underground below the intersection, is considered a "waters of the US"
under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act by the US Army Corps of Engineers because of its connection
to the Portneuf River. Any modifications to Pocatello Creek, including culvert replacement, will require
permits from the US Army Corps of Engineers and Idaho Department of Water Resources. In addition, a
more detailed analysis of the environmental elements will be necessary prior to final design and
construction. If federal funds are planned to be used for construction, the evaluation of environmental
impacts must be conducted in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The
environmental scan is included in Appendix L.
Pocatello Creek
Pocatello Creek, an open channel northeast of the project, drains into a large culvert that crosses both
Pocatello Creek Road (into the Winco parking lot) and Hiline Road (approximately 200 feet north of the
Alameda/Jefferson intersection). The culvert drains into an open channel that runs behind the Exxon
Mobil Gas Station. The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Pocatello Creek has a mapped floodplain that
covers the majority of the Alameda/Jefferson and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections. Refer to figure 2
for location of Pocatello Creek.
Traffic Operations
In order to analyze the existing and future conditions, a traffic study was conducted. The study included
an evaluation of current (2010) and projected (2035) traffic conditions with no improvements to the
intersections ("no-build" scenario). Traffic data was provided by the Bannock Transportation Planning
Organization (BTPO) including turning movements, average daily traffic (ADT), and collision history
data. A signed and sealed Traffic Study Report is included in Appendix B.
The purpose of the traffic analysis was to identify capacity and safety issues that could be contributing
to congestion and crashes in the project area. ITD's standard for an intersection on a principal arterial,
non-National Highway System (NHS), is Level of Service (LOS) `D'. The BTPO has developed LOS
standards for the cities of Pocatello and Chubbuck, but have not been adopted by ITD. The three
intersections in the study area have been assigned a minimum standard LOS `D' by BTPO Additional
information on the BTPO LOS standards is included in Appendix E of the attached Traffic Study
Report..
The Alameda/Jefferson intersection currently operates at LOS `D' and is projected to continue to operate
at LOS `D' in 2035. The critical movements impacting LOS for this intersection are:
     ·      Left turn movement from Pocatello Creek Road to Jefferson Avenue.
     ·      Right turn movement from Jefferson Avenue to Pocatello Creek Road.
     ·      Left turn movement from Jefferson Avenue to Alameda Road

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                             4
                                                                               Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                      Concept Report
                                                                                                      City of Pocatello


In addition to the critical lane movements analyzed, the free running right turn movement from Alameda
to southbound Jefferson is a safety and mobility concern since some of these movements turn left onto
E. Alameda. This movement was not analyzed as a critical lane movement since existing traffic data is
not available to quantify the turning volume and it impact to intersection operations. It is reasonable to
assume that this movement adds to the delay calculated in the traffic analysis.
The Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections currently operate at LOS `F' and LOS
'D', respectively. Projections for 2035 show both intersections will operate at LOS `F'. The low level of
service is primarily due to the impact of vehicle queues extending from the Alameda/Jefferson
intersection into the functional intersection area for the Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon
intersections.
Based on the results of the existing traffic conditions and projected (no build) conditions, the
Alameda/Jefferson intersection does not warrant the need for improvements. However, the Jefferson/E.
Alameda intersection warrants improvements based on existing conditions, and the Pocatello
Creek/Deon Drive intersection will warrant improvements based on projected 2035 conditions.



                                          Table 1. 2010 Existing Peak Hour



                                  ITD                                                           Intersection
                             Standard (non-         BTPO        Intersection   Modeled              Delay
       Intersection              NHS)              Standard     Control Type    LOS              (seconds)
 Alameda/Jefferson                   D                 D           Signal          D                 36.0
 Jefferson/E. Alameda               N/A                D         Stop Sign         F                 74.6
 Pocatello Creek/Deon               N/A                D         Stop Sign         D                 26.7


Traffic Safety
Crash data was provided between the period January 2004 and December 2008 for the three identified
intersections. A total of 43 accidents occurred between all three intersections with only two accidents
occurring at the Pocatello Creek/Deon intersection. The remaining accidents were split evenly between
the other two intersections. The crash data indicates a considerable amount of angle turning collisions
which is usually an indication that drivers are getting impatient and driving aggressively in and out of
these intersections. This data is also an indication of the impact of vehicle queues extending into
adjacent intersections.

Since only two accidents occurred at the Pocatello Creek/Deon intersection, an evaluation of the crash
data was not performed for this intersection. Evaluation of the crash data for the other two intersections
included evaluating the type of accidents that occurred, where they occurred, and why they occurred.
The evaluation also included completing the ITD Safety Evaluation Form (ITD-2658). The form uses
traffic volumes to calculate a predicted base rate of crashes likely to occur at an intersection. This value
is compared to recorded crash data and traffic volumes. If the ITD predicted rate is higher than the
observed rate, then an intersection does not require safety improvements solely based on crash data.
Table 2 contains the results of the crash analysis.




December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                              5
                                                                                Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                       Concept Report
                                                                                                       City of Pocatello




                                          Table 2. Crash Analysis Results


                       Intersection               Base Crash Rate     Observed Crash Rate
                 Alameda/Jefferson                     0.58                  0.34
                 Jefferson/E. Alameda                  0.58                  0.51


The signalized intersection, Alameda/Jefferson, has a very low observed crash rate does not warrant the
need to improve the intersection. The non-signalized intersection, Jefferson/E. Alameda, has an
observed crash rate that is relatively close to the base rate. Currently, this intersection does not warrant
the need for improvement based on historical crash data. However, as traffic volumes increase and
traffic conditions deteriorate, the observed crash rate is likely to rise above the base rate. The completed
ITD-2658 is included in the Traffic Study Report (Appendix B).


3.     OUTREACH
Several opportunities were provided to obtain input on the project from both the public and key
stakeholders (adjacent property owners, ITD District 5, the City of Pocatello, and the Bannock
Transportation Planning Organization). The City of Pocatello met with the Pocatello Chubbuck School
District 25 and the LDS Church to discuss the project and obtain their comments and/or concerns. A
public involvement meeting was held at the City of Pocatello's Council Chamber room on September 1,
2010.

Stakeholder Meetings
The school district officials for Pocatello Chubbuck School District 25, which has jurisdiction over the
Tendoy Elementary School, did not express any concerns regarding the project. In response to the
meeting, the school district provided a letter in support of Alternative 10 (Appendix I).
Officials from the LDS Church expressed concern about the by-pass route being located so close to their
building. They believe the location would be both a safety and noise concern, since most of the church
offices are located on the east side of the church. In response to the meeting, church officials developed
a letter in support of Alternative 1C (Appendix I).

Public Involvement Meeting
Approximately 50-60 people attended the September 2010 public meeting. Three ultimate build
alternatives (alternatives 1A, 1C, and 10) and corresponding initial build phases were presented at the
meeting. Diagrams of alternatives that were not carried forward were also made available for review at
the meeting. Forty comments were submitted, 29 of which indicated a preferred alternative. Alternative
10 was most favored with 12 positive comments, Alternative 1C was second with ten positive
comments, and Alternative 1A was least favored with seven positive comments.
All 40 comment sheets provided a variety of feedback on the project and alternatives. A summary of the
comments follows, and a compiled list is attached in Appendix G.
   ·    A large percentage of the attendees would like to close the existing Jefferson/E. Alameda and
        Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections.




December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                               6
                                                                             Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                    Concept Report
                                                                                                    City of Pocatello


   ·    There was a mixed reaction of having a by-pass route through the LDS Church parking lot or a
        frontage road in front of Tendoy Elementary School. Some citizens felt that the by-pass route was
        too close to the LDS Church. Others felt that the frontage road would have too much traffic going
        by the school during peak periods.
   ·    Several people commented that the access points for the Exxon Mobil gas station are too close to
        the intersection. The comments stated that drivers who utilize these access points sometimes
        block the roadway, causing accidents to occur.
   ·    There was a general concern about pedestrian safety, primarily children getting to and from
        Tendoy Elementary School. The location of cross-walks was a significant concern, especially the
        crossing on Jefferson Avenue where the two southbound lanes merge to a single lane.


4.     INITIAL ALTERNATIVES
Due to the complex nature of this project, close coordination efforts with the City of Pocatello, ITD
District 5, and BTPO were held throughout development of the alternatives. This coordination was a key
component in developing and screening alternatives.
The project kick-off meeting identified the project goals and potential challenges. The City of Pocatello
identified critical goals of the project; improve capacity for the study area intersections, implement
access management, and minimize impacts to commercial and/or residential structures.
The initial project alternatives for the Alameda/Jefferson intersection were intended to meet a LOS `C'
to minimize delay. Though the goal was to achieve that using a conventional intersection design, a LOS
`C' could not be achieved based on the critical lane movements experienced at the intersection. To
address those movements, alternative intersection designs were considered. Each of the initial
alternatives are listed below, and intersection layouts for each are included in Appendix C.
  · Alternative 1 ­ Conventional Intersection: In order to achieve LOS `C,' the Alameda/Jefferson
    intersection footprint would be very large and have significant impacts to surrounding businesses
    and properties, including the Tendoy Elementary School. Due to the significant property impacts,
    the project team determined that achieving LOS `C' was not feasible for this project with a
    conventional intersection configuration. The project team agreed to develop a conventional
    intersection alternative based on the LOS `D' criteria, which resulted in Alternative 1.
     Alternative 1 is a standard intersection layout for the Alameda/Jefferson intersection that includes
     dual left turns from Pocatello Creek Road to Jefferson Avenue. The Jefferson/E. Alameda and
     Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections would be converted to right-in/right-out movements only. On
     Jefferson Avenue, a median curb would be constructed to prevent left turn movement from Jefferson
     Avenue onto E. Alameda Road and prevent left turn movement from E. Alameda Road onto
     Jefferson Avenue, which are where a high concentration of angle collision accidents have occurred.
     A by-pass route would be constructed between E. Alameda Road and Deon Drive to route traffic to
     either Redwood Street or Cedar Street via E. Alameda Road.
     As stated previously, due to the projected LOS, the Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon
     intersections warrant improvements. By restricting the intersections to right-in/right-out
     movements, the operations for both intersections would be improved.
  · Alternative 2 ­ Jug Handle: The purpose of the jug handle is to remove critical lane movements
    (primarily left turn movements) which impact the delay at the intersection. This alternative has a jug
    handle located in the northeast corner (Winco parking lot) that would remove the left turn
    movements from Pocatello Creek Road to Jefferson Avenue and the left turn movements from
    Jefferson Avenue to Alameda Road (westbound). As depicted in the design layout drawing, vehicles
    traveling westbound on Pocatello Creek Road and needing to go southbound on Jefferson Avenue

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                            7
                                                                              Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                     Concept Report
                                                                                                     City of Pocatello


     would turn right at the eastern end of the jug handle, traverse through the jug handle to Hiline Road,
     turn left onto Hiline Road, and continue straight through the Alameda/Jefferson intersection to
     Jefferson Avenue. Vehicles traveling northbound on Jefferson Avenue needing to go westbound on
     Alameda Road would continue northbound through the Alameda/Jefferson intersection onto Hiline
     Road, turn right onto the jug handle, traverse through the jug handle to Pocatello Creek Road, turn
     right onto Pocatello Creek Road, and continue through the Alameda/Jefferson intersection to
     Alameda Road. This alternative also includes implementing right-in/right-out access control for the
     Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections with a by-pass route between E.
     Alameda Road and Deon Drive.
  · Alternative 3 ­ Modified Jug Handle: This alternative is almost identical to Alternative 2 with the
    exception of a roundabout on Hiline Road. The modification would impact vehicles traveling
    northbound on Jefferson Avenue that need to go westbound on Alameda Road. As depicted in the
    design layout drawing, vehicles traveling northbound on Jefferson Avenue who need to go
    westbound on Alameda Road would continue through the main intersection onto Hiline Road,
    utilize the roundabout to go southbound on Hiline Road then turn right onto Alameda Road.
    Compared to Alternative 2, this movement eliminates the need for northbound to westbound
    vehicles to use the jug handle.
  · Alternative 4 ­ Full Bowtie: This option consists of locating two roundabouts north and south of
    the Alameda/Jefferson intersection to remove critical turning movements from the
    Alameda/Jefferson intersection and implement driveway access management. For this alternative,
    roundabouts would be constructed on Hiline Road and at the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and
    Redwood Street. The roundabout on Hiline Road would eliminate the left turn movements from
    Jefferson Avenue to Alameda Road (westbound). The roundabout at the intersection of Jefferson
    Avenue and Redwood Street would allow the Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon
    intersections to operate as right-in/right-out movements. Left turn movements from Hiline Road to
    Pocatello Creek Road would also be eliminated since this movement would be accommodated by
    the roundabout. As depicted in the design layout drawing, vehicles traveling westbound on Pocatello
    Creek Road or southbound on Hiline Road would need to utilize the roundabout at
    Jefferson/Redwood to gain access to Alameda Road off of Jefferson Avenue and Deon Drive off of
    Pocatello Creek Road.
  · Alternative 5 ­ Half Bowtie: This alternative is very similar to Alternative 4, but uses one
    roundabout on Hiline Road. This roundabout would remove left turn movements from Jefferson
    Avenue to Alameda Road. Unlike the full bowtie alternative described above, this alternative does
    not allow vehicles to utilize the roundabout to access Deon and E. Alameda. Access to Alameda
    Road and Deon Drive would be identical to the by-pass route as indicated in Alternative 1.
  · Alternative 6 ­ 260' Diameter Roundabout: This alternative consists of a very large dual lane
    roundabout that realigns the approaches for Hiline Road and Jefferson Avenue. A typical dual lane
    roundabout ranges from 180 feet to 220 feet. Due to the existing skew of the four approach roads, a
    larger diameter roundabout would have to be constructed to provide the necessary deflections at
    each approach and to allow trucks to maneuver through the roundabout. The splitter islands along
    Jefferson Avenue and Pocatello Creek Road would be constructed long enough to provide right-
    in/right-out access management at E. Alameda Road and Deon Drive.
On April 9, 2010, a project team meeting with the City of Pocatello, ITD District 5, and BTPO staff was
held to conduct a high level screening of the initial alternatives, and to identify alternatives for further
analysis. Results of the initial screening were:
   · Alternative 1 ­ Conventional Intersection: The intersection would operate at a level of service
     `D' in 2035, and would be acceptable with a design exception through ITD based on BTPO's
     criteria. This alternative does improve the operations of the two other intersections with right-
     in/right-out movements. This alternative was selected to be carried forward.

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                             8
                                                                             Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                    Concept Report
                                                                                                    City of Pocatello


   · Alternative 2 ­ Jug Handle: This alternative would severely impact the Winco parking lot.
     Topographic constraints (a large hillside) prohibit the jug handle being located behind the Winco
     building, and therefore this alternative was not carried forward.
   · Alternative 3 ­ Modified Jug Handle: This alternative had similar concerns as Alternative 2, with
     the addition that local drivers may get confused with the roundabout on Hiline Road. This
     alternative was not carried forward.
   · Alternative 4 ­ Full Bowtie: It was determined that this alternative could be confusing to local
     drivers. This alternative does not require the by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon
     Drive; however this alternative was not carried forward due to the complex nature of the design.
   · Alternative 5 ­ Half Bowtie: This alternative generated similar responses as Alternative 4 and was
     therefore not carried forward.
   · Alternative 6 ­ 260' Diameter Roundabout: This alternative generated some interest, but due to
     the size of the roundabout and impacts to the school, Exxon Mobil gas station, and the limited
     ability to phase construction, the alternative was not carried forward.
The biggest concern generated after reviewing the proposed alternatives was how to redirect traffic once
access control is implemented at the Jefferson/E. Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections.
Constructing a by-pass between E. Alameda Road and Deon Drive would allow Deon Drive to be closed
off from Pocatello Creek Road and allow E. Alameda Road to be closed off from Jefferson Avenue.
However, if one or both of these options were utilized, traffic may be redirected to another access point.
Listed below are some of the ideas that were considered.
  · Extend Redwood Street to Franklin Road ­ Redwood Street connects to Jefferson Avenue at a T-
    intersection approximately 0.15 miles south of the Alameda/Jefferson intersection. Redwood Street
    is classified as a local road and is wide enough for on-street parking and two-way traffic. It dead
    ends into a neighborhood east of Jefferson Avenue. It is possible to extend Redwood Street to the
    east and connect into Franklin Road and E. Alameda Road. The advantage to extending Redwood
    Street to Franklin Road is that it would allow Deon Drive and Alameda Road to be closed off and
    allow a new access point off of Redwood Street. The disadvantages to this option are that it would
    likely require Redwood Street to be widened to meet the requirements of a collector, would have a
    significant grade and could impact residential properties. A map has been included in Appendix N
    that shows the contours within the area of the proposed extension of Redwood Street. There is a
    very narrow local road (Linda Avenue) that currently connects Redwood Street to E. Alameda Road.
    It is likely that traffic would not utilize the new route through Franklin Road and the Redwood
    Street extension, but instead cut across Linda Avenue to Redwood Street. This would have a
    significant impact on the neighborhood along Linda Avenue.
  · Develop New Access Point at Jefferson Avenue and Poplar Street ­ Another option that could be
    utilized is redirecting traffic east on E. Alameda Road to Franklin Road, then continuing south to
    Poplar Street, connecting to Jefferson Avenue approximately 0.25 miles south of the
    Alameda/Jefferson intersection as seen in Figure 1. The advantage of this option is that it would
    allow Deon Drive and Alameda Road to be closed off, and does not require widening. The only
    construction required would be adding a traffic signal at Poplar Street and Jefferson Avenue The
    disadvantage to this option is that drivers would extend their route to get access to Jefferson Avenue
    and Pocatello Creek Road and likely cut across Linda Avenue to Redwood Street.

It was determined by both the City of Pocatello and ITD that redirecting traffic to Redwood Street or
Poplar Street was not favorable due to the impacts to Linda Avenue and adjacent neighborhoods. These
options were not analyzed further. The conventional intersection (Alternative 1) was selected to move
forward with minor modifications. It was decided that additional alternatives should be developed for
the by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that would extend to Pocatello Creek Road

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                            9
                                                                             Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                    Concept Report
                                                                                                    City of Pocatello


with a traffic signal and a roundabout as two options. The group also identified a third option to analyze
a frontage road that would not impact the LDS Church parking lot and connect into Pocatello Creek
Road with a traffic signal.


5.     MODIFIED ALTERNATIVES
Based on the decision of the project team stated above, a new set of alternatives was developed. These
alternatives were submitted to the project team for approval prior to completing the traffic evaluation.
The modified alternatives are:
  · Alternative 1C ­ Conventional intersection with a frontage road around the LDS Church property
    and connecting into Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. This alternative would close off E.
    Alameda Road to Jefferson Avenue and Deon Drive to Pocatello Creek Road.
  · Alternative 7A ­ Conventional intersection with a by-pass route between E. Alameda Road and
    Deon Drive extending to Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. This alternative would close off
    E. Alameda Road to Jefferson Avenue and Deon Drive to Pocatello Creek Road with cul-de-sacs.
  · Alternative 7B ­ Conventional intersection with a by-pass route between E. Alameda Road and
    Deon Drive extending to Pocatello Creek Road with a roundabout. This alternative would close off
    E. Alameda Road to Jefferson Avenue and Deon Drive to Pocatello Creek Road with cul-de-sacs.

The City of Pocatello and ITD reviewed the modified alternatives and made decisions that generated a
new set of modified alternatives:
  · Alternative 1C ­ The alternative was selected to move forward.
  · Alternative 7A ­ The cul-de-sac on Deon Drive was removed, and the alternative was selected to
    move forward.
  · Alternative 7B ­ The roundabout on Pocatello Creek Road was removed from further consideration
    due to potential operational and capacity issues.
  · New Alternative: Alternative 8-Five Legged Intersection - The City of Pocatello was interested in
    evaluating an intersection layout similar to an intersection in Boise. (Capital Boulevard/University
    drive/Boise Avenue located near Boise State University).
  · New Alternative: Alternative 10-Squared Intersection ­ The City of Pocatello requested a concept
    to remove the skew in the Alameda/Jefferson intersection.

The engineering and modifications to alternatives 1C, 7A, 8, and 10 was completed to create a revised
set of alternatives, as described below:
  · Alternative 1C ­ Conventional intersection with a Frontage Road around the LDS Church property
    and connecting into Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. This alternative would close off E.
    Alameda Road to Jefferson Avenue and Deon Drive to Pocatello Creek Road
  · Alternative 7A ­ Conventional intersection with a by-pass route between E. Alameda Road and
    Deon Drive extending to Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. This alternative would close off
    E. Alameda Road to Jefferson Avenue with a cul-de-sac. This alternative was renamed as
    Alternative 1A.
  · Alternative 8 ­ Five legged intersection with E. Alameda Road as the fifth leg, removing the E.
    Alameda Road connection to Jefferson Avenue. Some of the disadvantages to this option include
    increased delay time due to the additional fifth leg, increased pavement surface area in the middle of
    the intersection, and a very complex configuration that may confuse local drivers and increase

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                           10
                                                                                                      Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                                             Concept Report
                                                                                                                              City of Pocatello


     crashes. See Appendix D for the design layout drawing of Alternative 8. This alternative was
     dropped due to the complex nature of the layout.
  · Alternative 10 ­ Square four-legged intersection, with three of the four approaches requiring `S'
    curves (Pocatello Creek Road, Hiline Road, and Jefferson Avenue). As seen in the design layout
    drawing in Appendix I, the intersection shifted slightly to the east. The advantages to this option are
    that it squares up the intersection and removes the free running right turn movement from the
    southwest corner and reduces the length of cross-walks. The disadvantages to this option are the
    additional required right-of-way, the relocation of the Exxon Mobil Gas Station on the northwest
    corner, and the impacts to the Tendoy Elementary School.

Traffic Evaluation

After the modifications were complete and the alternatives refined, a traffic analysis for 2035 traffic
conditions was conducted. Three of the four alternatives (1A, 1C, and 10) were included in the traffic
evaluation. Though a traffic analysis for Alternative 8 was not included in the traffic study report, a
Synchro analysis was performed. The results of that analysis confirmed that Alternative 8 would operate
at LOS `F' in the projected year 2035, with a delay of approximately 84.1 seconds.

The remaining three alternatives included a second traffic signal located on Pocatello Creek Road,
relatively close to the Alameda/Jefferson intersection. The initial evaluation involved analyzing each
individual intersection for each alternative, using Synchro. The Synchro analysis did not evaluate the
multiple intersections as a network. There was a concern with the close spacing of the second
intersection to the Alameda/Jefferson intersection and the potential for queues to extend from one
intersection into the adjacent intersection, impacting operations. Therefore, a VISSIM traffic simulation
was performed to analyze the intersection network. Details of the evaluations are included in the Traffic
Study Report (Appendix B). Table 3 summarizes the results of the VISSIM evaluation for each of the
alternatives.


                                       Table 3. VISSIM Analysis - 2035 Peak Hour

                                                               No Build                 Option 1A/1C                      Option 10
 Intersection                          BTPO              LOS           Delay           LOS           Delay          LOS           Delay
                                      Standard
 Alameda/Jefferson Avenue                  D               D            48.3             D            40.1            D             41.1
 *Pocatello Creek/Deon                     D               F            77.4             A            9.8             A             9.8
 Jefferson/E Alameda                       D               F            74.9          **N/A          **N/A         **N/A           **N/A

  * The Pocatello Creek Road and Deon Drive intersection is the new traffic signal along Pocatello Creek Road that connects the new by-pass
  route.
  ** The Jefferson Avenue and E. Alameda Road intersection is closed off in each of the three alternatives.

Based on the results above, the Alameda/Jefferson intersection will operate at a LOS `D' for all three
alternatives. The one second difference in delay between each alternative is not significant enough to
develop a recommendation from a traffic capacity and operations perspective. The evaluation also
indicated that the two traffic signals can operate effectively without queuing back into one another. A
more detailed description of the evaluation and results is listed in the Traffic Study Report (Appendix
B).




December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                     11
                                                                              Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                     Concept Report
                                                                                                     City of Pocatello



6.     ALTERNATIVE PHASING
Due to funding constraints, the project team requested that each alternative be broken into phases based
on funding packages of two million dollars. Design phasing plans for phase 2 and 3 for each alternative
are included in Appendix E.

  · Alternative 1A
        o   Phase 1 ­ Right-of-way acquisition for all residential and commercial property, relocation of
            all commercial and residential homes, and major utilities.
        o   Phase 2 ­ Construction of the by-pass route between E. Alameda Road and Deon Drive and
            connection to Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Existing access for Winco would be
            relocated to the new signal and the parking lot would be reconfigured. Access to Deon Drive
            from Pocatello Creek Road and access to E. Alameda Road from Jefferson Avenue would be
            closed.
        o   Phase 3 ­ Reconstruction of the Alameda/Jefferson intersection with improvements to Hiline
            Road, Pocatello Creek Road, Jefferson Avenue, and Alameda Road

  · Alternative 1C
        o   Phase 1 ­ Right-of-way acquisition for all residential and commercial property, relocation of
            all residential homes, and major utilities.
        o   Phase 2 ­ Relocation of all commercial property, construction of the frontage road and
            connection to Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Existing access for Winco would be
            relocated to the new signal and the parking lot would be reconfigured. Access to Deon Drive
            from Pocatello Creek Road and access to E. Alameda Road from Jefferson Avenue would be
            closed.
        o   Phase 3 ­ Reconstruction of the Alameda/Jefferson intersection with improvements to Hiline
            Road, Pocatello Creek Road, Jefferson Avenue, and Alameda Road

 · Alternative 10
        o   Phase 1 ­ Right-of-way acquisition and relocations of all residential property, and right-of-
            way acquisition for all undeveloped commercial property.
        o   Phase 2 ­ Right-of-way acquisition and relocation of all commercial property. Construction
            of by-pass route between E. Alameda Road and Deon Drive and connection to Pocatello
            Creek Road with a traffic signal. Existing access for Winco would be relocated to the new
            signal and the parking lot would be reconfigured. Access to Deon Drive from Pocatello
            Creek Road and access to E. Alameda Road from Jefferson Avenue would be closed.
        o   Phase 3 ­ Reconstruction of the Alameda/Jefferson intersection with improvements to Hiline
            Road, Pocatello Creek Road, Jefferson Avenue, and Alameda Road


7.     FINAL ALTERNATIVES
In the summer of 2010, a project team meeting was held with personnel from the City of Pocatello and
ITD District 5 to discuss the results of the Traffic Study Report, and impacts based on right-of-way,
construction costs, phasing and environmental constraints. Alternatives 1A, 1C, and 10 were presented
and discussed. The phasing plan for each alternative was also discussed with the team, including right-
of-way impacts, residential and commercial property relocations, and construction sequencing.

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                            12
                                                                              Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                     Concept Report
                                                                                                     City of Pocatello


The project team requested an initial build option for constructing either the by-pass route or the
frontage road initially and only acquiring right-of-way necessary for the initial construction. The initial
build option is a modification to the phasing plans indicated in section 6. This option will meet the
BTPO's minimum LOS requirements, since the Alameda/Jefferson intersection will operate at LOS `D'
through 2035.
  · Advantages to Initial Build ­ Impacts to the school property and the commercial businesses on the
    northwest corner could be avoided. The school building is fairly old and in approximately 10 to 20
    years, the school district may decide to relocate the school to another location. Traffic projections
    may change in the next 20 years which may or may not require the Alameda/Jefferson intersection
    to be reconstructed.
  · Disadvantages to Initial Build ­ Funding may not be available in the next 20 years when the
    intersection warrants improvement. Right-of-way costs to purchase residential and commercial
    property may increase significantly in the next 20 years.

The project team also discussed amenities such as entrance signs, landscaping, lighting, etc., which
appeared to be most appropriate for Alternative 10. However, this could increase the amount of right-of-
way needed. It was decided that these amenities should not be included in the alternative concepts but
could be added in the future during the design development process.

The City of Pocatello and ITD District 5 requested some minor changes to the alternatives which
included placing the cul-de-sac in Alternative 1A in the same location as in Alternative 10, adding
bicycle lanes to Pocatello Creek Road as indicated in the BTPO Master Bicycle Plan (Appendix F),
reducing the width of the bypass route and frontage road to the City's minimum, reducing the curb
return radii on all local roads to minimize impacts to residential homes, including right-of-way for the
new access into the Winco parking to allow the City to maintain the signalized access, and adding a
third lane on Pocatello Creek Road that would become a designated right turn lane at the
Alameda/Jefferson intersection.


8.     PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES
The City of Pocatello has a Master Bicycle Plan which includes various existing and planned trails,
shared use pathways, and bicycle routes within the City. BPTO also has a Master Bicycle Plan, which
includes regional bicycle facilities in addition to those within the city. The proposed improvements for
the main intersection include sixteen foot shared lanes on both sides of Pocatello Creek Road and Hiline
Road, and a six foot sidewalk terminating at Jefferson Avenue. A landscape buffer between the
proposed curb and gutter and sidewalk may also be added to improve safety. All proposed
improvements include ADA compliant pedestrian ramps and sidewalks.


9.     RECOMMENDATION
A matrix (Appendix J) was created to evaluate the identified alternatives, as well as a no-build option.
Each of the criteria used in the evaluation matrix is described below.
   · Land Use - Total right-of-way impacts required for the improvements as well as specific impacts to
      residential, commercial, church/school properties.
   · Transportation - Number of access points near the intersection and improvement to traffic
      operations (LOS).
   · Cost - Cost to relocate major utilities (including relocating the two steel power poles on the
      northwest and southwest corners of the main intersection) and total project construction cost.

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                            13
                                                                               Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
                                                                                                      Concept Report
                                                                                                      City of Pocatello


   · Public Involvement - Feedback from the public meeting and stakeholders (Appendix G).
   · Safety ­ Possible reduction in accidents, improvement to crosswalks, and improvements pedestrian
      and bicycle use.
The matrix was used to evaluate the different alternatives and determine a preferred alternative. A color
scheme (green, yellow, and red) was used to rate the alternatives for each of the criterion. Each color
represented a value (green =3, yellow =2, red=1) which was summed to provide each alternative with a
total score. The scoring results are displayed in Table 4.


                                  Table 4. Evaluation Matrix Grading Results

  Alternative        Land Use             Transportation   Cost      PIM               Safety             Total
       1A                 5                     6           3         1                   5                 20
       1C                 6                     5           3         2                   5                 21
       10                 4                     6           3         3                   9                 25



Based on the five factors of the evaluation matrix, Alternative 10 was the recommended option for
transportation, public involvement, and safety. The Consultant recommendation for the ultimate build,
based on the evaluation matrix, is Alternative 10. The Consultant does recommend implementing the
initial build for Alternative 10 as the most prudent option for improving the intersection at this time.
The preferred option will need to be determined through the NEPA process with an Environmental
Assessment.


10. CONCLUSION
The Alameda/Jefferson intersection is currently experiencing operational issues and there is a desire to
improve safety. There are currently two T-intersections that are relatively close to the main intersection
that are experiencing high delay and a history of accidents. The project area currently has poor access
management, which is contributing to accident frequency and reduced mobility. The City of Pocatello
would like to make improvements to this area, including implementing access management, improving
the operations of the intersections, and improving safety.
The project team went through an extensive process to develop practical alternatives. Key stakeholders
such as the City of Pocatello, ITD District 5, and BTPO played a major role in the development of these
alternatives. Other key stakeholders such as the LDS Church and the Pocatello Chubbuck School
District 25 were involved in the discussions throughout the project. After several iterations, the
alternatives were narrowed down to three that could be taken to the public for comments. The LDS
Church and the school district are split on which alternative they prefer, which is largely due to the
impacts to the LDS property and student safety.
Based on the traffic evaluation, it was determined that all three proposed alternatives would operate at
LOS `D' in 2035, which meets the minimum LOS requirements set by ITD and BTPO. The Jefferson/E.
Alameda and Pocatello Creek/Deon intersections are operating at LOS `F' and `D' under existing
conditions and it is projected that they would both operate at LOS `F' in 2035 for the no-build condition.
Projected traffic volumes are anticipated to increase and cause vehicles stacking up from the main
intersection and prohibiting movement. It is anticipated that as these two intersections deteriorate, the
chances of accidents occurring will increase.
The recommended alternative was determined to be Alternative 10 based on the evaluation criteria and
analysis, but a preferred option will need to be determined through the NEPA process with an
Environmental Assessment.

December 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                             14
             APPENDIX A
ITD Forms 757, 2708, and 280
ITD 2708 (Rev. 6-07)                               Preliminary Project Concept

 Key Number        Project Number                                      Project Title                                         Program (Work Authority)
 11657             A011(657)                                           Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
 Project Initiated By                                                  District     Route
 City of Pocatello                                                     5            I-15 B
 General Description
 Improve capacity, safety, and access management for intersection
   MP to MP            Design/Const. Year      County                                          City                           Road Segment Code
 4.983    4.983        2035/2015               Bannack                                         Pocatello                      I-15 B
                 Present                          Future                                         Present                  Future
 Traffic ADT                                                                      Traffic DHV
                 38,400                           50,200
 Accident Locations > Base Rate
 0.58
                                  Existing                                                       Proposed
   Access Control Type
 (Check Admin. Policy A-12-05)    None                                                           Close of surrounding intersections
                                  Class                                                          Subclass(es)
         Work Type

 Standards         AASHTO              3R          State        1R
 Companion Project Title                                  Key Number         Field Review Date          Review Team
 N/A                                                      N/A                N/A                        N/A


 1. Proposed Improvements
                       MP to MP              Existing           Proposed                              MP to MP          Existing         Proposed
                       4.9       5.1         51' to 79'          Varies
                                                                                  Right-Of-Way
   Roadway             1.0    1.48           35' to 38'          Varies              Width
                                                                                  (if R/W required,
    Width
                                                                                      attach form
                                                                                       ITD 2839)




  Horizontal                                                                         Vertical
  Alignment                                                                         Alignment




    Slope
  Flattening
Turning Lanes


Climbing Lanes


Slow Moving Vehicle Lanes



Intersections (Including Turn Bays, Signals, Lighting, Dividers, Etc.)
              Locations                                                     Recommendations




2. Other Improvement Recommendations
                                                           Location(s)                                     Quantity
Guardrail/Hazard Removal

Guardrail End Treatments

Curb/Gutter

Sidewalk

Facilities

Seeding


3. Type of Surfacing
Existing                                                                                      Existing Width
Asphalt Pavement                                                                              Varies
Proposed                                                                                      Width
Asphalt Pavement                                                                              Varies

   Reconstruction           Rehabilitation                      Materials Source   State      Commercial

4. Structure Improvements (Check Sufficiency Rating & Inspection Report)
                                             Location(s)                                      Size and Type
Replacement

Deck Repair

Widening

Rail and/or Curb
5. Drainage Improvements
                 Location(s)                                                        Recommendations




6. Miscellaneous
Signing Requirements


Utility Adjustments (Kind and Location)
Idaho Power, Qwest Phone Lines, Intermountain Gas
Irrigation Facilities (Kind and Location)
N/A
R/R Crossing Work
N/A
Construction Traffic Control


Detours


Problems Identified Through Contact With Local Maintenance




List any future plans for the area that would affect this or connecting Roadways.




Project Designation       Simple            Complex
Special Problems Not Identified Above




Work Needing a Consultant




Additional Comments




Stakeholders
City of Pocatello, ITD, BTPO, Pocatello/Chubbuck School Dist. 25, LDS Church

7. Environmental - Include Draft ITD 0280 ­ Feasibility Study
ITD 0757 (Rev. 5-10)                                         Design Standards
itd.idaho.gov

Project Identification
Key Number          Project Number                               Project Title                                                     Date
11657               Ao11(657)                                    Int. Alameda Rd & Jefferson, Pocatello
County                       Terrain Type                        Highway Number             Milepost       to     Milepost         Functional Class
Bannock                      Level                               I-15B                    4.983                 4.983              Urban Arterial

Project Type
Project Standards          AASHTO             3R        1R           State          PM            Other
Oversight                  Full               Exempt

General Project Description
This project will consist of reconstructing the main intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd/Hiline Rd/Alameda Rd/Jefferson Ave and
constructing either a by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive and extending north and connecting into Pocatello
Creek Rd with a traffic signal or a frontage road that curves around the LDS church and connects into Pocatello Creek Road
with a traffic signal. Access control will be implemented by closing off Alameda Road from Jefferson Avenue and closing off
Deon Drive from Pocatello Creek Road.
Standards for Pavement Width
AASHTO Standard Width 3R Standard Width                 State Standard Width              ITD Standard Width *Corridor Plan        Other Standard Width
12 ft/lane
Roadway Widths (Attach existing and proposed typical sections)
Milepost to Milepost     Existing Pavement Width          Proposed Pavement Width
   4.9              5.1              51' to 79'                          Varies

   1.0              1.4              35' to 38'                          Varies
                                                                                                           Proposed width includes a 2-foot shoe for
                                                                                                           each side (AASHTO Standards Only)




Proposed Maximum Superevelation                              Proposed Design Vehicle                             Design Year
N/A       %                                                  WB-67                                               2035
Traffic ADT                                          Traffic DHV                                                 Posted Speed           Design Speed
Present 38,400             Future    50,200          Present                     Future                          35                     35
Minimum Level of Service (Attach capacity analysis)                              Access Control
Milepost to Milepost          Existing                    Proposed               Milepost to Milepost                 Existing               Proposed
  4.983            4.983             D                         D                  1.047            1.047                None              Rt in - Rt out

  1.047            1.047             F                           F                5.137            5.137                None              Rt in - Rt out

  5.137            5.137             D                           F
Maximum Grade                                                                    Minimum Curve Radius
Existing 0             %              Proposed 0             %                   Existing R       N/A           Proposed R          N/A
Proposed Structures (Attach typical sections)
Deck Width                                            Vertical Clearance (Roadway/Q50)                     Design Load
  (C-C)      N/A            (0-0) N/A                 N/A                                                  N/A
Existing Bridge Sufficiency Rating       Rail Type                                    Clear Zone
N/A                                      N/A                                          Cut N/A                         Fill   N/A
 Proposed Work (Mark appropriate items)
     Excavation                  Bicycle Lanes                   Curb and Gutter                       Lighting                ITS
     Drainage                    Separated Pathway               Utilities                             Sidewalk                Other
     Base                        Traffic Signal                  Bridge(s)                             Seal Coat
     Surfacing                   Erosion Control                 Guard Rail                            Detour
 Traffic Signals
  Existing Location (Milepost)             Type of Controller                Proposed Location (Milepost)              Type of Warrant
               4.983                                                                    4.983
                                                                                          5.4


 Railroad Crossing Protection
  Existing Location (Milepost)             Type of Protection                Proposed Location (Milepost)             Type of Protection




 Accident History
 Accident Base Rate (ACC/MV)                                                 Existing Accident Rate within Project Limits (ACC/MV)
 0.58                                                                        0.51
 Spot Locations within Project Limits that exceed the Base Rate (list Milepost)



 Proposed Improvements to Reduce Accidents *Attach worksheet for accident reduction, if necessary.
        Milepost                   Type of Improvements                                         Estimated Accident Reduction




 Environmental
 Feasibility Study (ITD 0280) Complete                               Yes ­ Attach a copy to this form.             No ­ Explain below




 Environmental Concerns




ITD 0757 (Rev. 5-10)                                               Page 2 of 2
ITD 0280 (Rev. 11-07)                                        Feasibility Study
itd.idaho.gov

 Key Number     Location                                              General Description                                   Route
 11657          A011(657)                                             Intersection Improvements                             1-15B
 Beginning Milepost     Ending Milepost   Length in Miles   County                                  City                                       District
 4.983                  4.983             0                 Bannack                                 Pocatello                                  5
 The project is located on a Connecting Idaho Corridor                        The Purpose and Needs was originally identified in a Corridor Plan
       Yes              No                                                        Yes          No

 Purpose and Needs Report
 Project Purpose/Benefits
 Mark (xx) the one item that best describes the Primary Reason for Proposing this Project
 Mark (+) all Other Relevant Items
  xx      Maintain/Improve User Operating Conditions                  Enhance Accessibility for the Disabled/Safety
  xx      Maintain/Improve Traffic Flow                        +      Enhance Pedestrian Safety and/or Capacity
          Time Savings                                         +      Enhance Bicycle Safety and/or Capacity
          Increase Capacity                                           Traffic Composition Enhancement (e.g., Truck Route, HOV Lane, Climbing Lane)
  xx      Reduce Congestion                                           Visual/Cultural Enhancement (e.g., Landscaping, Historic Preservation)
          Hazard Reduction/Safety                                     Environmental Enhancement (e.g., Air Quality, Noise Attenuation, Water Quality)
          Reduce Highway User Operating Costs                         Economic Prudence (e.g., Repair Less Expensive than Replacement, B/C Ratio)
          Other, List (e.g., Driver Convenience and Comfort Regarding Rest Area Projects)


 Describe design elements needed to accomplish the purpose of this proposal as they relate to the current deficiencies.
 Reconstruct intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd/Hiline Rd/Alameda Rd/Jefferson Ave with reconfigured lane uses per approach.
 This project will also include constructing either a by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that will extend to the
 north to Pocatello Creek Road traffic signal or a frontage road that will curve around the LDS Church and connect into Pocatello
 Creek Road with a traffic signal. The project will also implement access control that will close off Alameda Road to Jefferson
 Avenue and close off Deon Drive to Pocatello Creek Road.




 Proposed Improvements (See ITD 2708 and ITD 1150)
 Roadway:
 Intersections: Reconfigure existing intersection and construct new one on Pocatello Creek Road
 Drainage:
 Structures:

ITD 0280 (Rev. 11-07)                                           Page 1 of 2
 Railroad Crossings:
 Traffic Items:
 Traffic Control:
 Other Items:
 Utilities: Relocate two very large steel power poles


Environmental (Check any of the following that are likely impacted by the proposal.)
  1.   Noise Criteria Impacts                                                              18.     Air Quality Impacts
  2.   Change in Access or Access Control                                                  19.     Inconsistent With Air Quality Plan
  3.   Change in Travel Patterns                                                                          SIP           TIP
  4.   Neighborhood or Service Impacts                                                     20.     Stream Alteration/Encroachment
  5.   Economic Disruption                                                                                IWDR             F&G            COE (404)
  6.   Inconsistent W/Local or State Planning                                              21.     Flood Plain Encroachment
  7.   Environmental Justice                                                                              Longitudinal             Transverse
  8.   Displacements                                                                       22.     Regulatory Floodway
  9.   Section 4(f) Lands-DOT Act 1966                                                                    PE Cert. & FEMA Approval                      Revision
10.    LWCF Recreation Areas/6(f) Lands                                                    23.     Navigable Waters
11.    Section 106-Nat. Historical Preservation Act                                                       CG (Sec 9)             COE (Sec 10)                Dept. Lands
12.    FAA Airspace Intrusion                                                              24.     Wetlands
13.    Visual Impacts                                                                                     Jurisdictional (404)               Non-Jurisdictional
14.    Prime Farmland, Parcel Splits                                                       25.     Sole Source Aquifer
15.    Known/Suspected "Hazmat" Risks                                                                     Exempt Project                Non-Exempt
16.    Wildlife/Fish Resources/Habitat                                                     26.     Water Quality, Runoff Impacts
17.    Threatened/Endangered Species                                                       27.     NPDES ­ General Permit
             Listed         Proposed                                                       28.     Sediment ­ Erosion Control Plan

 Anticipated Environmental Document/Decision                                 EE/Cat Ex                      EA/FONSI                      EIS/ROD

 Right of Way (See ITD 2839)                                                  Preliminary Project Costs (See ITD 1150)
 Direct Acquisition Costs ...............       $   1,704,029                 Development (Planning/Engineering/Environmental) ... $                         354,000
 Indirect Acquisition Costs .............       $   0                         Construction (CN/CE) .......................................... $              3,257,892
 Incidentals ....................................
                                                $   170,403                   Utilities ................................................................ $   200,000
                                     Total $        1,874,432                 Right of Way ...................................................... $          1,874,432
 Number of Parcels Requiring Acquisition 38                                                                                                  Total $         5,686,324
 Number of Parcels Requiring Relocation 5

 Financial Plan
 List possible funding sources/programs
 (Preservation, Bridge, Safety, Mobility, Enhancement, CMAQ, etc.)       Safety
 Will total funding be within available District source/program levels?                 Yes            No
 If no, what additional funding sources are identified?
 Is any planning funding needed to prepare the project for a five year program?                     Yes            No
 When could full funding be available?

                             Environmental Planner                        Project Development Engineer                          District Engineer
 Recommended By:
 Approved By Transportation Planning Administrator              Date                 Approved By Chief Engineer                                              Date




ITD 0280 (Rev. 11-07)                                                  Page 2 of 2
APPENDIX B
Traffic Report
                                                                         CITATION




                                          Parametrix. 2010. Alameda Road & Jefferson
                                                    Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                          Traffic Study Report. Prepared by Parametrix,
                                                           Boise, Idaho. July 26, 2010.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657
                                                                                Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                                        Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                                    City of Pocatello



TABLE OF CONTENTS

             1. BACKGROUND .................................................................................................... 3

             2. 2010 EXISTING CONDITIONS ............................................................................. 4
                  2.1 CALIBRATION OF THE VISSIM MODEL............................................................... 4
                  2.2 2010 OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS............................................................................. 6
                      2.2.1 Intersection Level of Service Analysis (SYNCHRO) ......................................... 6
                      2.2.2 Vehicle Queuing Analysis (VISSIM).................................................................. 7

             3. ROADWAY CAPACITY ANALYSIS ..................................................................... 8
                  3.1 2010 ROADWAY CAPACITY ANALYSIS ............................................................... 8
                  3.2 2035 ROADWAY CAPACITY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS...................................... 8
                      3.2.1 Using the LOS D Criteria.................................................................................... 9
                      3.2.2 Additional Roadway Capacity Assessment......................................................... 9

             4. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT PACKAGES AND FUTURE TRAFFIC
                VOLUMES........................................................................................................... 10
                  4.1 OPTION 1A................................................................................................................ 10
                  4.2 OPTION 1C ................................................................................................................ 10
                  4.3 OPTION 10................................................................................................................. 11

             5. 2035 TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS ........................................................ 15
                  5.1 INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS (SYNCHRO) ....................... 15
                      5.1.1 No Build ............................................................................................................ 15
                      5.1.2 Option 1A and Option 1C ................................................................................. 15
                      5.1.3 Option 10........................................................................................................... 16
                  5.2 VEHICLE QUEUING ANALYSIS (VISSIM) .......................................................... 16
                      5.2.1 No Build ............................................................................................................ 16
                      5.2.2 Option 1A and Option 1C ................................................................................. 16
                      5.2.3 Option 10........................................................................................................... 17

             6. VEHICLE COLLISION HISTORY ....................................................................... 18

             7. CONCLUSIONS .................................................................................................. 19

             8. RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................................................................... 20




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                             i
                                             Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                     Traffic Study Report
                                                                                           City of Pocatello



APPENDICES

             APPENDIX A ­ FDOT PLANNING LEVEL THRESHOLDS

             APPENDIX B ­ BTPO VOLUME DATA

             APPENDIX C ­ SYNCHRO OUTPUT DATA

             APPENDIX D ­ CRASH HISTORY AND ANALYSIS DATA

             APPENDIX E ­ BTPO LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS VARIABLE
                          APPROACH




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                   ii
                                                           Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                   Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                         City of Pocatello



 ACRONYMS
ADT                    Average Daily Traffic
BTPO                   Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
ITD                    Idaho Transportation Department
LOS                    Level of Service




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                iii
                                                            Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                    Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                          City of Pocatello

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the transportation and traffic operations for proposed roadway
improvements in Pocatello, Idaho. The City of Pocatello is considering improvements to the traffic
operating conditions of the E Alameda Rd - Pocatello Creek Rd and Jefferson Ave ­ Hiline Rd
(Pocatello Creek / Jefferson Ave) intersection. This intersection is located along the designated I-15
business loop and provides access to I-15 to the north.
Although the ITD Design Manual identifies a LOS C as the acceptable threshold the BTPO developed a
LOS Standards Variable Approach for use on roadways and intersections within their jurisdictional
boundary. According to this document, and corresponding figure (Appendix E), the study intersections
will be allowed to operate at LOS D. ITD has not approved this document however it has been allowed
for use in this analysis per direction from ITD.
This study proposed three options with varying roadway and signal improvements. Due to the
complexity of closely spaced intersections Parametrix recommended the City of Pocatello verify the
Synchro results using a tool capable of assessing the finer details of traffic operations. The selected tool
was VISSIM. VISSIM is a microsimulation software tool ideal for evaluating many traffic and
pedestrian mobility issues in complex environments, such as closely spaced intersections where queuing
can affect upstream intersection operations.
Observation of study area intersections revealed that existing intersection geometry and proximity of the
Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd T-intersection can cause significant queuing and delay. Also, a review of
historical accident data from 2004 to 2008 showed a total of 43 vehicle collisions in the study area.
Three options were developed for the 2035 design year in order to obtain acceptable LOS conditions for
the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave and Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd intersections. The three build
options included the following:
      Option 1A: Proposes closing E Alameda Rd / Jefferson Ave T-intersection, signalizing and
         relocating the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Rd intersection, study area local road geometric
         improvements and signal timing optimization.
      Option 1C: Similar to Option 1A with slight modification to local road connections between E
         Alameda Rd and Deon Rd.
      Option 10: Similar to Option 1A but with additional geometric modifications at the Pocatello
         Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection, including eliminating the westbound free-flow right-turn
         lane and reconfiguration of the northbound approach.
The No Build option demonstrated vehicle delay occurring at LOS D for the Pocatello Creek Rd /
Jefferson Ave intersection. This delay increases over the existing delay experienced by drivers traveling
through this area. The Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Rd and Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd intersections
are predicted to operate at LOS F under the No Build alternative. Intersection delay to drivers is due to
the existing intersection geometry, closely spaced intersections, and the high traffic volume demand on
E Alameda Rd. The No Build option intersection delay is acceptable for the Pocatello Creek Rd /
Jefferson Ave under the No Build option. The Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Drive and Jeffeson Ave / E
Alameda Rd intersections are anticipated to be well beyond acceptable LOS thresholds as outlined by
the BTPO.
The proposed build Options evaluated closing access from E Alameda Rd to Jefferson Ave and
installing a signal at the existing Pocatello Creek / Deon Dr intersection. Local traffic would use routes
through the neighborhood, as illustrated in Figures 3-5. The impact of the local traffic on adjacent
intersections shows a delay of LOS D at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection and an
acceptable delay of LOS A at the proposed Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection.



July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                  1
                                                         Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                 Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                       City of Pocatello

The traffic analysis shows the capacity and LOS for Option 1A, Option 1C and Option 10 are sufficient,
at LOS D, and that they mitigate the anticipated vehicle delay at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave
and Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersections.
It is recommended that the process for selecting a preferred alternative be informed with additional
development criteria. Criteria should include residential and commercial property displacements, right-
of-way costs, opinions of probable construction and engineering costs, and other environmental and
social considerations.
This study also recommends utilizing the LOS criteria outlined in the BTPO LOS Standards Variable
Approach. According to the BTPO document, the study intersections of Pocatello Creek / Jefferson
Ave, Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Rd and Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd are allowed to operate at LOS
D.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                               2
                                                           Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                   Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                         City of Pocatello




1.      BACKGROUND
Today, vehicles traveling through the E Alameda Rd - Pocatello Creek Rd and Jefferson Ave ­ Hiline
Rd (Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave) intersection experience significant vehicle delay from heavy
traffic volumes and closely spaced intersections. Also, a total of 43 vehicle collisions have occurred at
intersections in the immediate vicinity between January 2004 and December 2008. The City of
Pocatello has taken the initiative to explore options to improve the drivers experience and safety through
this area, which is summarized in this report.
The Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection is a non-traditional (skewed) 4-leg intersection in
Pocatello, Idaho. Figure 1 provides an aerial image of the intersection. Alameda Rd serves as the
Interstate-15 (I-15) business loop connecting to Pocatello Creek Rd. The intersection of Pocatello Creek
Rd / Jefferson Ave is signalized. The Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd T-intersection is oriented
approximately 200 feet to the south of the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection and has a
westbound leg stop controlled. The intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr is approximately 350
feet northwest of the signalized intersection. The intersection is a stop controlled T-intersection with
westbound leg stop controlled.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate ways to improve traffic operations and safety in the area of the
Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection. The evaluation was completed by performing a traffic
modeling analysis of 2010 existing traffic conditions and forecasted conditions for 2035. Three options
were developed, as well as a No Build option, for the 2035 traffic volumes to improve traffic operations.
Improvements to the roadways included signal timing adjustments, intersection reconfiguration,
roadway widening, and changes to local road network.




                                                                                         Figure 1 ­Site Layout



July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                 3
                                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                        City of Pocatello




2.      2010 EXISTING CONDITIONS
This section summarizes the traffic operations analysis performed for the existing conditions, which
provides a base of comparison for future conditions. The intersections included in the study area are as
follows (see Figure 2 for a Study Area map):
      Alameda Rd ­ Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave ­ Hiline Rd (Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson
         Ave)
      Pocatello Creek Rd /Deon Dr
      Jefferson Ave / Alameda Rd.
Existing traffic turning movements, average daily traffic (ADT), and collision history data for the
identified intersections were provided by the Bannock Transportation Planning Organization (BTPO).
Existing signal timing was provided by ITD District 5 through the City of Pocatello for Pocatello Creek
Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection. The intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave is a signalized
intersection with protected left turns on all movements. Turning movement counts for the existing p.m.
peak period, from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., were collected in July, 2009 ­ the p.m. peak hour (hour of highest
traffic volume) was calculated as 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Estimated truck volumes on Pocatello Creek
Rd and Alameda Rd were observed as approximately 3 percent. The estimated truck volume along
Hiline Rd and Jefferson Ave is approximately 2 percent.
The Alameda Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection is a stop controlled T-intersection with stop-control for the
Alameda Rd approach. The existing p.m. peak turning movement counts were collected in January,
2010. Estimated truck volume along Alameda Rd is approximately 1%.
The intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd and Deon Dr is a stop controlled T-intersection with stop-control
for the Deon Dr approach. A partial existing p.m. peak turning movement count was collected in
January, 2010. Estimated truck volume along Deon Rd is approximately 1 percent. Refer to Appendix
B for all traffic data provided by BTPO.
Using the information discussed above as well as details about the existing roadway geometry such as
lane widths, curve radii, turn bay lengths, a VISSIM microsimulation model was created. VISSIM is a
software tool ideal for evaluating many traffic and pedestrian mobility issues in complex environments,
such as closely spaced intersections where queuing can affect upstream intersection operations.


2.1 CALIBRATION OF THE VISSIM MODEL
Microsimulation models, such as VISSIM, are developed to simulate existing traffic conditions. The
ability and accuracy of these models to simulate existing and proposed traffic conditions can be assessed
by comparing outputs of the model to prevailing conditions. A statistical process called the Geoff E.
Havers (GEH) statistic, was used for this study. This statistical formula evaluates how close modeled
results are to observed datum. Guidelines from the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) state a
microsimulation model is considered calibrated to observed volumes if the GEH value is less than 5.00
for 85 percent or more of the model links and less than 4.00 for the sum of all link counts. The model
used in this studies analysis is considered to be calibrated per FHWA guidelines as 100 percent of the
individual links were below 4.00 (maximum observed VISSIM value of 2.43) and the GEH for the sum
of all link counts was 0.01. These results indicate a strong degree of calibration and that the model is
appropriate to assess existing conditions as well as alternative roadway improvements.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                4
                                               Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                       Traffic Study Report
                                                                                             City of Pocatello




                                          Figure 2 ­ 2010 PM Peak Hour Existing Condition


July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                          5
                                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                        City of Pocatello




2.2 2010 OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS
Two common measurements of traffic performance and operation are reported for the scenarios
analyzed and are summarized below--this includes the LOS, which is represented by a letter A through
F, and vehicle queuing. The significance of these two measurements is they represent the average delay
vehicles experience when passing through an intersection (except for at stop controlled intersection
where the worst approach is reported) and the approximate distance vehicles spillback (i.e. queue) from
the intersection during peak operation conditions. As conditions degrade and congestion increases, the
scale slides towards F, which generally represents stop-and-go or heavily congested conditions and the
length of vehicle queues increase.
According to BTPO Standards, the allowable intersection operating condition is LOS of D (see Table 1).
There is no standard for vehicle queue length and for purposes of analysis, the modeled queue length is
compared to available storage length of existing turn pockets.

2.2.1 Intersection Level of Service Analysis (SYNCHRO)
The existing 2010 p.m. peak hour analysis for existing vehicle delay and LOS for the identified
intersections are summarized in Figure 2 and in Table 1. In addition, the current BTPO standards for
intersection LOS are summarized in Table 1.


                              Table 1. Existing 2010 PM Peak Hour LOS Summary

                                                       Intersection                             Intersection
                                             BTPO      Control Type          Modeled                Delay
                Intersection                Standard                          LOS                (seconds)
   Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson Ave            D           Signal                 D                  36.0
      Pocatello Creek Rd/Deon Dr               D         Stop Sign                D                  26.7
      Jefferson Ave/E Alameda Rd               D         Stop Sign                F                  74.6


As summarized in Table 1, the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection currently operates at a
LOS D with an average intersection delay of 36.0 seconds. The Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr
intersection currently operates at a LOS D with an average intersection delay of 26.7 seconds--because
this intersection is a stop-controlled intersection, the delay is reported for the westbound Deon Dr
movement. Vehicles would experience little to no delay traveling through this intersection on Pocatello
Creek Rd. The Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd stop-controlled intersection currently operates at a LOS F
with an average intersection delay of 74.6 seconds, which is due to the westbound left turning traffic.
The Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave and Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection are operating at
the current BTPO threshold limit at LOS D. The intersection of Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd is
operating at an unacceptable LOS F compared to a threshold of LOS D.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                6
                                                                                   Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                                           Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                                    City of Pocatello



2.2.2 Vehicle Queuing Analysis (VISSIM)
The existing 2010 p.m. peak hour results for the existing vehicle queuing for study area intersections are
summarized in Table 2. The results of the vehicle queuing analysis are summarized in Table 2.


                                 Table 2. Existing 2010 PM Peak Hour Queuing Summary

                                                                                           Queue Length (feet)                    Maximum
                                                                                                                                  Exceeds
                                                              Existing Turn                                                       Available
                                                             Pocket Storage                                                        Storage
 Intersection and Movement                                      Length 1                 Average            Maximum                Length
 Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson Ave
 Northbound left-turn                                                 80                     36                  213                  
 Shared northbound through/right-turn                                150                     66                  202                  
 Westbound left-turn                                                 210                     61                  370                  
 Westbound through                                                   300                     41                  256
 Southbound through/right-turn                                         --                    42                  276                   --
 Southbound left-turn                                                125                     33                  251                  
 Eastbound left-turn                                                 160                     22                  168                  
 Eastbound through                                                     --                    65                  300                   --
 Eastbound right-turn                                                200                     2                   92
 Pocatello Creek Rd/Deon Dr
 Westbound movements                                                   --                    1                    46                   --
 Southbound left-turn                                                125                     1                   23
 Jefferson Ave/E Alameda Rd
 Westbound movements                                                   --                    3                   102                   --
 Southbound left-turn                                                 50                     6                   107                  
 Northbound movements                                                  --                    12                  201                   --
     Note: Bold queue lengths indicate exceedance in available storage.
     1
         Available storage or distance to upstream intersection; a "--"indicates a lane where storage length is not applicable.

As shown in Table 2, none of the modeled average queues lengths exceed available storage. However,
some of the maximum queues exceed available storage length. At the Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson Ave
intersection, the northbound maximum queues extend south of E Alameda Rd, which impacts this
intersection. The extension of this queue length impedes the movement of southbound vehicles turning
left onto E Alameda Rd and westbound vehicles turning from E Alameda Rd to Jefferson Ave. Left turn
maximum queues on westbound Pocatello Creed Rd and southbound Hiline Rd also extend beyond the
available storage. These long queues can sometimes block one of the through movements and vehicles
can only proceed through the intersection using one of the two available lanes. At the Jefferson Ave/E
Alameda Rd intersection, the southbound left turn has a maximum queue can extend to the north and has
the potential to cause intersection blockages at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection. The
queue conditions reduce the ability of the intersection to efficiently and safely allow vehicles to pass
through the area and result in increased vehicle delay and increased potential for collisions to occur.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                            7
                                                                    Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                            Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                    City of Pocatello


3.      ROADWAY CAPACITY ANALYSIS
This section discusses the analysis for evaluating whether roadways have sufficient capacity, enough
space in the travel lanes to accommodate the number of vehicles wanting to travel on them, for 2010 and
2035. Roadway capacity is a term used to describe the total number of vehicles that could theoretically
travel on a segment of roadway for some time period. The methodology for this analysis was developed
by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT), is used regularly throughout the United States,
and is an approved methodology for this study in assessing roadway link capacities. This methodology
is referred to as the FDOT Planning Level Roadway Link Volume Thresholds and is incorporated into
this document as directed by the City of Pocatello and the ITD.
This analysis informs the decision-making process by providing a planning-level assessment about a
roadways ability to accommodate future traffic growth.


3.1 2010 ROADWAY CAPACITY ANALYSIS
The 2010 roadway capacity analysis was conducted using data provided by the BTPO. This data was
used to evaluate the existing link volumes for the roadway segments in the study area and is summarized
in Table 3. This analysis was not conducted for Deon Dr or Alameda Rd east of Jefferson Ave as an
evaluation of the existing and future volumes showed they are well below any planning level thresholds
that would require improvements--For example, the ADT on Deon Drive is 1,300 vehicles and 4,800 on
Alameda Rd.


                                Table 3. Existing 2010 Roadway Capacity Analysis
                                                        No. of                                           Existing
                                                       Through Exclusive     LOS D          LOS D       Traffic Two     Sufficient
                        Segment                         Lanes Left Lanes    Threshold      Adjusted     Way Total       Capacity
             Pocatello Creek (North of Deon)             4        YES        36,700         40,370         24,350           YES
             Pocatello Creek (South of Deon)             4        YES        36,700         40,370         24,050           YES
           Jefferson Avenue (North of Alameda)           2        YES        16,500         14,025         18,350           NO
           Jefferson Avenue (South of Alameda)           2        NO         16,500         17,325         13,950           YES
         Alameda Road (West of Hiline/Jefferson)         4        YES        36,700         40,370         19,600           YES
      Hiline Road (North of Alameda/Pocatello Creek)     2        YES        16,500         14,025         14,800           NO



Table 3 shows that Jefferson Ave, north of Alameda and Hiline Rd, north of Pocatello Creek do not have
sufficient capacity in 2010. This conclusion is reached by comparing the FDOT LOS D Adjusted
vehicle volumes to the Existing Traffic Two-Way Total volumes. Not having sufficient capacity
indicates there is congestion on the roadway.


3.2 2035 ROADWAY CAPACITY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
A 2035 roadway capacity sensitivity analysis was conducted using two different operational criteria--a
LOS C and LOS D criteria. Both operational criteria were evaluated to provide a sensitivity analysis of
the anticipated future conditions. This informs the decision-making process for the adjustment of
acceptable standards for roadway capacity. This sensitivity analysis is also used to determine how much
roadway widening may be necessary to achieve an acceptable future roadway capacity based on the
LOS threshold.
Because the improvement options recommended in this study (Option 1A, 1C, and 10) propose changes
to roadway network, there are some differences in the segments reported in the 2035 analysis. The
elimination of access from E Alameda to Jefferson Ave removes the Jefferson Ave, north of Alameda
Rd segment--this segment is now included as part of Jefferson Ave, south of Pocatello Creek Rd. Also,

July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                            8
                                                                      Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                              Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                     City of Pocatello

the proposed signal installation at the Pocatello Creek / Deon Dr intersection changes the facility type
from a Class I facility to a Class II facility per the FDOT methodology (this applies different adjustment
factors to the facility for 2035 than what was used in 2010).
The 2035 roadway capacity analysis was conducted using the 2010 and 2030 data provided by the
BTPO, which was factored to 2035 using growth projections also provided by BTPO. The project future
volumes are used to evaluate roadway capacity per the FDOT methodology described above.

3.2.1 Using the LOS D Criteria
A LOS D criteria was evaluated for study area roadway to determine if they had sufficient capacity
based on this analysis. The LOS D criteria was utilized based on the BTPO LOS Standards Variable
Approach document. As shown in Table 4, the Hiline Rd (north of Pocatello Creek) segment is the only
roadway that does not have sufficient roadway capacity using the LOS D Criteria. A LOS D represents
conditions where vehicle speeds begin to decline below the posted speed limit.


                           Table 4. 2035 Roadway Capacity Analysis ­ LOS D Criteria
                                                         No. of                                            Predicted
                                                        Through Exclusive     LOS D           LOS D       Traffic Two    Sufficient
                         Segment                         Lanes  Left Lanes   Threshold       Adjusted      Way Total     Capacity
              Pocatello Creek (North of Deon)              4       YES         33,200         36,520        32,700          YES
              Pocatello Creek (South of Deon)              4       YES         33,200         36,520        32,900          YES
        Jefferson Avenue (South of Pocatello Creek)        2       YES         15,200         15,200        14,950          YES
          Alameda Road (West of Hiline/Jefferson)          4       YES         33,200         36,520        26,750          YES
       Hiline Road (North of Alameda/Pocatello Creek)      2       YES         15,200         12,920        15,650          NO


3.2.2 Additional Roadway Capacity Assessment
Utilizing the LOS D reveals the only roadway requiring mitigation to achieve this standard is Hiline
Road. A sensitivity analysis was performed to determine the additional roadway geometric
modifications or widening required to achieve an acceptable LOS D on Hiline Road. Adding another
travel lane that extends north on Hiline Rd from the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection for
southbound traffic brings this roadway section into the LOS D threshold. This mitigation was not
included as part of the Build Options discussed below as the priority of the Build Option was to achieve
acceptable LOS standards at the intersection, as required.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                             9
                                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                        City of Pocatello




4.      PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT PACKAGES AND FUTURE TRAFFIC
        VOLUMES
This section describes the three build improvement scenarios developed to improve traffic operations in
the study area. These build alternatives were developed in coordination with the City of Pocatello. In
addition, this section describes how proposed improvements would likely change the way people travel
through the study area to reach destinations based on intersection modifications.
The future 2030 projected volumes were provided by the BTPO and utilized to determine an associated
2035 volume. The BTPO developed these volumes using their travel demand model for the area, which
factors how employment, population and land use changes in the area effects how and where people
travel. This model produced an annual growth rate on E Alameda Rd and Pocatello Creek Rd ranging
from 1.1 percent to 1.4 percent. The 2035 volumes are then calculated by applying these annual growth
rates to existing volumes provided by BTPO for use in this study. These volumes required adjustments
based on modifications to the roadway configuration in the proposed options, which are described
below. Because traffic could no longer access E Alameda Rd from Jefferson Ave for all options, this
traffic was rerouted through the network (see Option 1A). The total volume in the study area did not
change, but volume on some of roadways is different when compared to No Build.


4.1 OPTION 1A
The objective of Option 1A is to improve vehicle operations, safety, and business access in the study
area. Refer to Figure 3 for an illustration of proposed roadway and signal modification improvements
and projected 2035 volumes.
Pocatello Creek and Jefferson Avenue Intersection
This option modifies the channelization of the southwest Pocatello Creek Rd approach to include to two
left turn pockets, one through only lane, and one shared through-right lane.
Jefferson Avenue and E Alameda Drive
This option proposes to close the access provided at this intersection. E Alameda Drive would provide a
cul-de-sac to permit vehicles to turnaround. Because this roadway is closed, vehicles traveling
westbound on Alameda Dr would divert to the proposed signal at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr
intersection. Vehicles that previously accessed E Alameda Dr from Jefferson Ave would now use Deon
Dr. Also, vehicles traveling north on Jefferson Ave to E Alameda Dr use local roadways, such as E
Poplar St and Redwood St, prior to entering the study area.
Pocatello Creek and Deon Drive Intersection
This option proposes to modify channelization on Pocatello Creek to provide a northbound left-turn
pocket, northbound through lane, shared northbound through-right lane, southbound left-turn pocket,
two southbound through lanes, and a southbound right turn lane. The Deon Dr approaches would
provide one shared lane for all movements. A new signal would also be installed at this intersection.


4.2 OPTION 1C
The objective of Option 1C is similar to Option 1A with improving vehicle operations, safety, and
business access in the study area but also proposes additional local roadway circulation. Refer to Figure
4 for an illustration of proposed roadway and signal modification as well as anticipated 2035 volumes.
The modifications to the study area intersections are the same as those described above in Option 1A.
The differences between Options 1A and 1C are in the connections and configurations of the local

July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                               10
                                                            Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                    Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                          City of Pocatello

access road network, specifically Deon Dr, E Alameda Rd, and the new Deon-Alameda connector.
These modifications would not change the traffic diversion identified in Option 1A.


4.3 OPTION 10
The objective of Option 10 is to provide slightly different intersection and roadway configurations to
Option 1A and Option 1C, while attempting to improve vehicle operations, safety, and business access.
Refer to Figure 5 for an illustration of proposed roadway and signal modification as well as anticipated
2035 volumes. Vehicle volumes would divert their trips the same in Option 10 as they would in Option
1A and Option 1C with the closure of the Jefferson Ave/E Alameda Rd intersection.
The local access road network for Option 10 is the same as Option 1A.
Pocatello Creek and Jefferson Avenue Intersection
This option proposes to remove the dedicated eastbound right-turn lane on Pocatello Creek Rd. Also, it
modifies the northbound approach by converting the northbound left-turn pocket to a left-turn lane and
the right-turn lane to a right-turn pocket. This modification would provide additional left-turn queue
storage and diminish right-turn queue storage. The elimination of a free running right from an
operational standpoint will slightly increase intersection delay but is a safe way to allow vehicles to turn
right.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                 11
                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                        City of Pocatello




                                                    Figure 3 - Option 1A Channelization


July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                     12
                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                        City of Pocatello




                                                    Figure 4 - Option 1C Channelization


July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                     13
                                          Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                  Traffic Study Report
                                                                                        City of Pocatello




                                                    Figure 5 - Option 10 Channelization


July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                     14
                                                                                 Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                                         Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                               City of Pocatello




5.         2035 TRAFFIC OPERATIONS ANALYSIS
This section summarizes the 2035 traffic operations analysis using both the Synchro and VISSIM traffic
modeling software tools to evaluate how the proposed build options and their respective roadway and
intersection improvements influence traffic operations in the study area. The Synchro software was
used to evaluate intersection delay in the study area and develop signal timing plans for a coordinated
system. Due to the complexity of closely spaced intersections, VISSIM was used to evaluate how all of
the study area intersections operated as a system--this was due to limitations of the Synchro model in
assessing impacts due to excessive queuing and congested conditions.


5.1 INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS (SYNCHRO)
Study area intersection delay and the resulting LOS were calculated using Synchro (version 7, build 773,
Revision 8) software. A summary of results for the No Build and Build Options is provided. Table 5
summarizes the results of the intersection LOS analysis for year 2035.

5.1.1 No Build
Increases in future traffic volumes without improvements would degrade the existing LOS to levels
beyond the current acceptable standards outlined by the BTPO. The intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd /
Jefferson Ave is operating at an acceptable LOS D according to the BTPO LOS Standards Variable
Approach. Refer to Figure 2 for the existing lane configuration utilized for this alternative. The delay at
all intersections in the study area is expected to increase as a result of increased traffic volumes, and is
shown in Table 5. When compared to 2010 existing conditions (see Table 1, above), the LOS at two of
the study intersections would also degrade and the Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd intersection would
operate unacceptably below its LOS standard.


                                            Table 5. 2035 PM Peak Hour LOS Summary

                                                                    No Build               Option 1A/1C              Option 10
                                                  BTPO
    Intersection                                  Standard          LOS        Delay       LOS          Delay        LOS           Delay
    Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson
    Ave                                           D                 D          48.3        D            40.1         D             41.1
    Pocatello Creek Rd/Deon Rd                    D                 F          77.4        A            9.8          A             9.8
                                                                                                1             1           1
    Jefferson Ave/E Alameda Rd                    D                 F          74.9        NA           NA           NA            NA 1
Note: Bold LOS and delay text indicates operations worse than LOS standard.
1
    Under the Build options, this intersection is closed with a cul-de-sac.


5.1.2 Option 1A and Option 1C
Option 1A and Option 1C analysis results are summarized together as they proposes the same
intersection modifications--the only difference between these options is the configuration of the local
connections between E Alameda Rd and Deon Dr, which does not impact the intersection LOS analysis.
Both of these Options improve the intersection operating conditions at the Pocatello Creek Rd /
Jefferson Ave intersection compared to doing nothing (refer to Table 5). Results were not calculated for
the Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd intersection since it is closed under these options.
Because the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection is being signalized, the LOS comparison
between existing and future conditions is slightly different. The LOS reported in existing conditions

July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                      15
                                                            Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                    Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                          City of Pocatello

pertains to the stop-controlled approach. Although adding a signal at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr
intersection could increase Pocatello Creek Rd through movement delays, the intersection is anticipated
to perform at a LOS A, which meets acceptable LOS thresholds per BTPO guidelines. Also, a signal
could provide additional protection for left-turn movements off of Pocatello Creek Rd. Improvements
proposed at the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection will improve access to businesses located
north of Pocatello Creek Rd.

5.1.3 Option 10
The difference in intersection delay between Option 1A and Option 1C with Option 10 is approximately
one second (see Table 5). This minimal difference in delay demonstrates there is little discernable
difference in performance between the proposed Options, from a LOS perspective. This increase in
delay is associated with the elimination of the free running right turn lane for the eastbound right turning
traffic from E Alameda Rd to Jefferson Ave.


5.2 VEHICLE QUEUING ANALYSIS (VISSIM)
To provide additional detail on the operating performance of the Build Options, a microsimulation
software tool, VISSIM (version 5.10), was used to evaluate maximum anticipated queues at study area
intersections for the p.m. peak hour in 2035. The signal timings used for this analysis were imported
from the Synchro analysis to maintain consistency in intersection operating conditions.
Storage bays at intersections are typically designed to the 95th percentile queue length. This 95th
percentile queue length represents a distance that, 95 percent of the time, would sufficiently handle the
queues for the movement in question. The other 5 percent of the time, the queues from the intersection
extend some unknown distance beyond that point. The VISSIM model provides a unique perspective to
inform design considerations for storage bays as it captures the queue length encountered by every
vehicle with the modeled timeframe is a capable of producing a number of statistics to describe queuing,
such as the average and maximum queue lengths.
The maximum queue length calculated using the VISSIM model also provides additional insight on the
impact of intersection within close proximity to one another with a high degree of confidence. For
example, one can conclude that if the maximum queue length reported from VISSIM does not extend
from one intersection through a downstream intersection, queuing is not likely impacting the
performance of adjacent intersection. This provides further assurance that intersection LOS assessments
using Synchro are valid and not understating congestion at intersections due to excessive queuing.

5.2.1 No Build
As shown in Table 6, the future 2035 traffic conditions (No Build) have a number of movements in the
study area with long queue lengths, some of which exceed available turn lane storage capacity and
extend into nearby intersections. This extensive queuing spilling back into downstream intersections
can cause blockages, which significantly degrades intersection operations. This type of impact may not
be captured in a Synchro intersection LOS analysis adequately. As summarized in Table 6 queues from
the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection impact the Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd
intersection and the Jefferson Ave / E Alameda Rd intersection.

5.2.2 Option 1A and Option 1C
Option 1A and Option 1C analysis results are summarized together as they proposes the same
intersection modifications--the only difference between these options is the configuration of the local
connections between E Alameda Rd and Deon Dr, which does not impact the queuing analysis.
Improvements to the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection significantly reduce the average
and maximum queue lengths anticipated in the 2035 p.m. peak hour, as summarized in Table 6.

July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                 16
                                                                                      Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                                              Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                                                    City of Pocatello

Although a number of the movements exceed available storage in these build options, the queues no
longer spill back and interfere with downstream intersections.


                 Table 6. No Build and Build 2035 PM Peak Hour Queuing Summary (VISSIM)

                                                      Storage              No Build                  Option 1A/1C             Option 10
                                                      (Existing /
 Intersection and Movement                            Proposed) 1          Avg            Max        Avg          Max         Avg         Max
 Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson Ave
 Northbound left-turn                                 80/--                94             205        25           142         57          238
 Shared northbound through/right-turn                 150/--               113            208        56           276         21          220
 Westbound left-turn                                  210/350              248            908        61           234         65          256
 Westbound through                                    300/580              75             654        86           453         90          484
 Southbound through/right-turn                        --/580               115            722        37           212         39          209
 Southbound left-turn                                 125                  81             539        80           435         76          492
 Eastbound left-turn                                  160                  45             304        43           230         45          315
 Eastbound through                                    --                   118            515        71           312         72          336
 Eastbound right-turn                                 200/--               7              95         2            72          3           77
 Pocatello Creek Rd/Deon Dr
 Westbound                                            --                   5              69         25           149         27          148
 Eastbound                                            --                   NA             NA         0            0           0           0
 Northbound left-turn                                 170                  NA             NA         0            0           0           0
 Northbound through                                   575                  NA             NA         25           216         26          237
 Southbound left-turn                                 125/200              3              44         26           146         25          146
 Southbound through                                   --                   NA             NA         9            226         9           226
 Jefferson Ave/E Alameda Rd
 Westbound                                            --                   47             304
                                                                                                          Intersection is closed as part of
 Southbound left-turn                                 50                   21             194
                                                                                                                these build Options
 Northbound                                           --                   55             428
        Note: Bold queue lengths indicate queue storage lengths have been exceeded.
        1
         Available storage or distance to upstream intersection; a "--"indicates a lane where storage length is not applicable. Movements with
        more than one available storage length indicate further improvements where the storage length was changed.
        2
            Under the Build options, this intersection is closed with a cul-de-sac.


5.2.3 Option 10
As summarized in Table 6, the anticipated queue length are significantly improved over 2035 No Build
conditions and queue spillback does not impact adjacent intersections. When comparing queue lengths
between Option 1A and Option 1C with Option 10, the queue lengths are generally slightly longer with
Option 10 for most movements.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                                           17
                                                            Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                    Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                          City of Pocatello




6.      VEHICLE COLLISION HISTORY
This section summarizes the vehicle collision data for study area intersections, which was performed to
see if there are prevailing safety issues at study area intersections. Collision data provided summarized
incidents occurring between January 2004 and December 2008. During this time frame a total of 43
accidents occurred in the study area. Crash rate for each of the study area intersection as assessed using
the ITD Safety Evaluation Form, known as ITD-2658. This form uses provided collision history data to
calculate a predicted base rate of accidents likely to occur to an intersection. This value is compared to
observed accident data and vehicle volumes, based on roadway segment type. If the ITD predicted rate
is higher than the observed rate, than an intersection does not require safety improvements. Completed
ITD-2658 for study area intersection can be found in Appendix D.
Pocatello Creek Road and Jefferson Avenue Intersection
Twenty-four collisions occurred in the vicinity of the Pocatello Creek / Jefferson Ave intersection. The
ITD Safety Evaluation Form predicted a base rate of accidents occurring at the Pocatello Creek Rd /
Jefferson Ave intersection to be 0.58 accidents per million vehicle miles travelled. The calculated rate
of accidents occurring at this intersection, based on 2004 to 2008 data, was 0.34 accidents per million
vehicles miles travelled. Because the base rate (ITD Safety Evaluation Form results) is higher than the
actual rate, this intersection does not require safety improvements.
E Alameda Road and Jefferson Avenue Intersection
Seventeen collisions occurred in the vicinity of the E Alameda Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection.
Collisions at this intersection are most likely the result of undesirable access management and vehicles
queuing into the intersection. This condition results in aggressive driving and aggressive maneuvering,
which can increase the likelihood of collisions.
The ITD Safety Evaluation Form predicted a base rate of 0.58 accidents per million vehicle miles
travelled for this intersection. The calculated rate of accidents occurring at this intersection, based on
2004 to 2008 data, was 0.51 accidents per million vehicle miles travelled. Because the base rate is
higher than the actual rate, this intersection does not require safety improvements.
Pocatello Creek Road and Deon Drive Intersection
Two collisions occurred in the vicinity of the Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection. An accident
rate was not calculated for this intersection as there was not sufficient information to determine a base or
calculated accident rate utilizing the ITD Safety Evaluation Form.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                 18
                                                           Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                   Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                         City of Pocatello




7.      CONCLUSIONS
Drivers passing through the study area can experience significant congestion and travel delay today
during the morning and evening commute period. The curve of Pocatello Rd through its intersection
with Jefferson Ave and the close proximity of adjacent intersection can cause additional congestion in
the area. These existing conditions are characterized by the City of Pocatello and ITD as being
unacceptable as intersections are operating outside of recommended conditions. These conditions will
continue to degrade in the future as the City of Pocatello and surrounding areas continue to develop,
resulting in additional vehicle demand on these roadways.
This study assessed three Build Options to determine the level of improvement that could be required to
bring intersections in the study area back to recommended BTPO operating conditions. The Build
Options proposed improvements to improve access to local roadway circulation, business access north
of Pocatello Creek Rd, and safety.
The following conclusions are based on the findings of this study:
      With the anticipated growth in vehicle volumes and no improvements to existing roadways in the
         future (No Build), significant delay will occur at study area intersections. The intersection of
         Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave operates at an LOS D under the No Build scenario, which is
         acceptable according to the BTPO. Conversely, the intersection delays for the Pocatello Creek
         Rd / Deon Dr and Jefferson Dr / E Alameda Rd are anticipated to be well beyond acceptable
         LOS thresholds outlined by the BTPO.
      The combination of roadway geometric improvements, signal improvements, and the closure of
         the E Alameda Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection significantly improves vehicle operations in the
         study area for the 2035 p.m. peak hour. For the three Build Options, the Pocatello Creek Rd /
         Jefferson Ave intersection is anticipated to operate at a LOS D (a reduction of approximately 8
         seconds in delay) and the proposed Pocatello Creek Rd / Deon Dr intersection at a LOS A.
      The proposed Build Options significantly reduce the intersection queue lengths in the study area.
         Although some of the proposed modifications to storage lengths are successful in
         accommodating the modeled maximum queue lengths, some are still exceeded. None of the
         queue lengths are expected to spillback and block nearby intersections under normal operating
         conditions.
      With the proposed improvements in the build options, the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave
         intersection is operating at LOS D, which is acceptable according to the BTPO LOS Standards
         Variable Approach document.
      The number of collisions occurring at study area intersections does not exceed the ITD Safety
         Evaluation calculated rates. Therefore, none of the intersections require modification based on
         accident history.
      A planning-level roadway capacity sensitivity analysis performed for roadways in the study area
         indicates that all roadways meet a LOS D threshold with anticipated 2035 volumes, except Hiline
         Rd. However, only Alameda Rd west of Jefferson Ave met a LOS C threshold.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                19
                                                           Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements -
                                                                                                   Traffic Study Report
                                                                                                         City of Pocatello




8.      RECOMMENDATIONS
It is recommended that the City of Pocatello explore options for providing an additional southbound
travel lane on Hiline Rd leading up to the Pocatello Creek Rd / Jefferson Ave intersection. This
additional lane would sufficiently mitigate link capacity shortages in 2035 based solely on the FDOT
planning-level thresholds.
Because the intersection operation and queuing analysis resulted in similar operating conditions for the
three Build Options, it is recommended that additional criteria be considered in selecting the final Build
Option. Additional considerations could include residential and commercial property displacements,
right-of-way costs, opinions of probable construction and engineering costs, and other environmental
and social considerations.




July 26, 2010  A011(657), Key No. 11657                                                                                20
APPENDIX A ­ FDOT PLANNING LEVEL THRESHOLDS
Intersection considered to be Class I facility for 2010 Existing Condition



                                                                                                                                              Non-State
                                                         No. of                        Left Lane         Exclusive Right Lane                Signalized         Net                                 Existing
                                                        Through Exclusive             Adjustment           Right   Adjustment                 Roadway       Adjustment   FDOT LOS C   FDOT LOS C   Traffic Two   Sufficient
                     Segment                             Lanes Left Lanes               Factor            Lanes      Factor                  Adjustment       Factor      Threshold    Adjusted     Way Total    Capacity
           Pocatello Creek (North of Deon)                   4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%        10%        35,500       39,050       24,350         YES
          Pocatello Creek (South of Deon)                    4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%        10%        35,500       39,050       24,050         YES
        Jefferson Avenue (North of Alameda)                  2               YES            -5%              NO                0%                    -10%      -15%        15,400       13,090       18,350         NO
        Jefferson Avenue (South of Alameda)                  2               NO              0%              YES              15%                    -10%       5%         15,400       16,170       13,950         YES
      Alameda Road (West of Hiline/Jefferson)                4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         35,500       39,050       19,600         YES
  Hiline Road (North of Alameda/Pocatello Creek)             2               YES            -5%              NO                0%                    -10%      -15%        15,400       13,090       14,800         NO




Intersection considered to be Class II facility for 2035 Future Condition - Addition of Deon Drive Signal = 2.00 signalized intersections per mile



                                                                                                                                              Non-State
                                                         No. of                        Left Lane         Exclusive Right Lane                Signalized         Net                                 Predicted
                                                        Through Exclusive             Adjustment           Right   Adjustment                 Roadway       Adjustment   FDOT LOS C   FDOT LOS C   Traffic Two   Sufficient
                     Segment                             Lanes Left Lanes               Factor            Lanes      Factor                  Adjustment       Factor      Threshold    Adjusted     Way Total    Capacity
          Pocatello Creek (North of Deon)                    4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         25,000       27,500       32,700         NO
          Pocatello Creek (South of Deon)                    4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         25,000       27,500       32,900         NO
   Jefferson Avenue (South of Pocatello Creek)               2               YES            -5%              YES              15%                    -10%       0%         10,500       10,500       14,950         NO
      Alameda Road (West of Hiline/Jefferson)                4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         25,000       27,500       26,750         YES
  Hiline Road (North of Alameda/Pocatello Creek)             2               YES            -5%              NO                0%                    -10%      -15%        10,500        8,925       15,650         NO




                                                                                                                                              Non-State
                                                         No. of                        Left Lane         Exclusive Right Lane                Signalized         Net                                 Predicted
                                                        Through Exclusive             Adjustment           Right   Adjustment                 Roadway       Adjustment   FDOT LOS D   FDOT LOS D   Traffic Two   Sufficient
                     Segment                             Lanes Left Lanes               Factor            Lanes      Factor                  Adjustment       Factor      Threshold    Adjusted     Way Total    Capacity
          Pocatello Creek (North of Deon)                    4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         33,200       36,520       32,700         YES
          Pocatello Creek (South of Deon)                    4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         33,200       36,520       32,900         YES
   Jefferson Avenue (South of Pocatello Creek)               2               YES            -5%              YES              15%                    -10%       0%         15,200       15,200       14,950         YES
      Alameda Road (West of Hiline/Jefferson)                4               YES            -5%              YES              15%                     0%       10%         33,200       36,520       26,750         YES
  Hiline Road (North of Alameda/Pocatello Creek)             2               YES            -5%              NO                0%                    -10%      -15%        15,200       12,920       15,650         NO
APPENDIX B ­ BTPO VOLUME DATA
                                                   Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
                                                                                           P.O. Box 6129
                                                                                     Pocatello, Idaho 83205-6129
Default Comments                                                                                                                                                      File Name       : 651Jan10PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                                                                                Site Code       : 00000561
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                                                                              Start Date      : 1/26/2010
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                                                                                           Page No         :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                              Jefferson                                    E Alameda                                    Jefferson                                    E Alameda
                             From North                                    From East                                   From South                                    From West
Start Time      Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru       Left    Peds App. Total   Right    Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru       Left  Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    04:15 PM        0    113       35      0        148        25      0         5        0         30       5     109        0      0        114         0      0         0      0           0         292
    04:30 PM        0    116       29      0        145        29      0         4        0         33       7     143        0      0        150         0      0         0      0           0         328
    04:45 PM        0    120       36      0        156        27      0         2        0         29       7     141        0      0        148         0      0         0      0           0         333
        Total       0    349     100       0        449        81      0        11        0         92      19     393        0      0        412         0      0         0      0           0         953

    05:00 PM       0    125      41       0         166       21      0          2        0       23      11     149        0       0         160        0      0         0      0            0         349
    05:15 PM       0    133      37       0         170       28      0          3        0       31      18     181        0       0         199        0      0         0      0            0         400
    05:30 PM       0    140      34       0         174       25      0          8        0       33      10     138        0       0         148        0      0         0      0            0         355
    05:45 PM       0    119      47       0         166       28      0          4        0       32      10     122        0       0         132        0      0         0      0            0         330
        Total      0    517     159       0         676      102      0         17        0      119      49     590        0       0         639        0      0         0      0            0        1434

  Grand Total      0     866     259      0        1125      183      0         28        0      211      68      983       0       0        1051        0      0         0      0            0        2387
    Apprch %       0      77      23      0                 86.7      0       13.3        0              6.5     93.5       0       0                    0      0         0      0
     Total %       0    36.3    10.9      0        47.1      7.7      0        1.2        0      8.8     2.8     41.2       0       0          44        0      0         0      0            0
    Unshifted      0     866     259      0        1125      183      0         28        0      211      68      983       0       0        1051        0      0         0      0            0        2387
  % Unshifted      0     100     100      0         100      100      0        100        0      100     100      100       0       0         100        0      0         0      0            0         100
      Bank 1       0       0       0      0           0        0      0          0        0        0       0        0       0       0           0        0      0         0      0            0           0
    % Bank 1       0       0       0      0           0        0      0          0        0        0       0        0       0       0           0        0      0         0      0            0           0
                                     Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
                                                                        P.O. Box 6129
                                                                  Pocatello, Idaho 83205-6129
Default Comments                                                                                                                       File Name    : 651Jan10PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                                                 Site Code    : 00000561
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                                               Start Date   : 1/26/2010
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                                                            Page No      :2

                                                                                   Jefferson
                                                                        Out            In      Total
                                                                        1166          1125      2291
                                                                            0             0        0
                                                                        1166          1125      2291


                                                                          0  866          259    0
                                                                          0     0            0   0
                                                                          0  866          259    0
                                                                      Right Thru         Left Peds

                                       0
                                       0
                                       0


                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                   Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                         183

                                                                                                         183




                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                      327

                                                                                                                      327
                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                    North
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                               Peds Right Thru
                                   E Alameda




                                                                                                                     E Alameda
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0




                                                                       1/26/2010 04:15 PM
                                        In




                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                         In
                                                                       1/26/2010 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                          211

                                                                                                                          211
                                                        0
                                                        0
                                                        0




                                                                                                       Left Peds




                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                         28

                                                                                                         28
                                                                       Unshifted




                                                                                                           0
                                 0
                                 0
                                 0




                                                                       Bank 1
                                   Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                538

                                                                                                                                538
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                       Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    983    68    0
                                                                              0       0    0    0
                                                                              0    983    68    0


                                                                         894          1051      1945
                                                                            0             0        0
                                                                         894          1051      1945
                                                                        Out            In      Total
                                                                                   Jefferson
                                                  Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
                                                                                        P.O. Box 6129
                                                                                  Pocatello, Idaho 83205-6129
Default Comments                                                                                                                                                  File Name       : 563Jan10PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                                                                            Site Code       : 00000563
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                                                                          Start Date      : 1/28/2010
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                                                                                       Page No         :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                                                                      Pocatello Creek                                   Deon                                  Pocatello Creek
                             From North                                 From East                                    From South                                 From West
Start Time      Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left    Peds App. Total   Right    Thru      Left  Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
    04:00 PM        0      0      0       0           0        0    225        0       0       225        4        0       1      0           5        4    239        0      0        243          473
    04:15 PM        0      0      0       0           0        0    223        4       0       227        3        0       4      0           7        4    232        0      0        236          470
    04:30 PM        0      0      0       0           0        0    211        4       0       215        2        0       4      0           6        6    217        0      0        223          444
    04:45 PM        0      0      0       0           0        0    244        7       0       251        6        0       7      0          13        6    245        0      0        251          515
        Total       0      0      0       0           0        0    903      15        0       918       15        0      16      0          31       20    933        0      0        953         1902

    05:00 PM       0      0       0      0            0       0     243      10        0      253       3        0       2       0            5      12     269      0       0         281          539
  Grand Total      0      0       0      0            0       0    1146      25        0     1171      18        0      18       0           36      32    1202      0       0        1234         2441
    Apprch %       0      0       0      0                    0    97.9     2.1        0               50        0      50       0                  2.6    97.4      0       0
      Total %      0      0       0      0            0       0    46.9       1        0       48     0.7        0     0.7       0         1.5      1.3    49.2      0       0        50.6
    Unshifted      0      0       0      0            0       0    1146      25        0     1171      18        0      18       0          36       32    1202      0       0        1234         2441
  % Unshifted      0      0       0      0            0       0     100     100        0      100     100        0     100       0         100      100     100      0       0         100          100
      Bank 1       0      0       0      0            0       0       0       0        0        0       0        0       0       0           0        0       0      0       0           0            0
    % Bank 1       0      0       0      0            0       0       0       0        0        0       0        0       0       0           0        0       0      0       0           0            0
                                         Bannock Transportation Planning Organization
                                                                                    P.O. Box 6129
                                                                              Pocatello, Idaho 83205-6129
Default Comments                                                                                                                                                 File Name    : 563Jan10PM
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000563
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 1/28/2010
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                                                                                      Page No      :2

                                                                                    Out         In              Total
                                                                                          0          0              0
                                                                                          0          0              0
                                                                                          0          0              0


                                                                                      0     0               0      0
                                                                                      0     0               0      0
                                                                                      0     0               0      0
                                                                                  Right Thru         Left       Peds

                                                   2398

                                                   2398
                                                       0



                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0




                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                   Total




                                                           Left




                                                                                                                                      1220

                                                                                                                                      1220
                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                            0 1146
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            0 1146



                                                                                                                                          0
                                   Pocatello Creek




                                                                                                                                          Pocatello Creek
                                                                                               North
                                                                   32 1202

                                                                   32 1202
                                                                          0

                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                          1234

                                          1234
                                              0




                                                                                   1/28/2010 04:00 PM
                                           In




                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                               1171

                                                                                                                                               1171
                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                   1/28/2010 05:00 PM
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                        Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                          25

                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                   Unshifted




                                                                                                                            0
                                 1164

                                 1164
                                     0




                                                                                   Bank 1
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                              0
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                          2391

                                                                                                                                                          2391
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                   Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     18       0   18    0
                                                                                        0     0    0    0
                                                                                     18       0   18    0


                                                                                      57          36               93
                                                                                        0          0                0
                                                                                      57          36               93
                                                                                    Out         In              Total
                                                                                               Deon
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       0
          630
          632




                                                         0
                                                         0



                                          9611
                                          9979
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0




                                                         0
                                                         0


                                                  9
                                                   11
                                                 96979
                                                                   7
                                                                  72573
                                                                     48
                                                   9019
                6858                               9365
                7076
                                                                    1
                                                                   12150
                                                                      54 9
                                                                        7




                                          2161
                                          2289
87
86
                                                                             662
                                                                             662




                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                   12165




                                          2161
                                          2289
                                                                                                      71 6
                                                                                                        2
                       11
                       10




0
0
                                  2
                                 22 159
                                   87
                                                                                            6
                                                                                             2
                                                                                           66 62




                         1
                        19 798
                          08
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0




      1
     19 798
                                                           3
       08
                                                          36 79
                                                                                               9.709
                                                                                                   1
                                                                                             98 3.
                                                                                          15482
                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                    82. .1
                                                                                                                   6 82
                                                                                                                    6
         0
         0




                          0
                          0




                                                                                 682.17
                                                                                 682.17
                                                                            9
                                                                        4.2
                                                                       6.6
                                          78622.4
                                           7




                                                                     11
                                                                    75
                                             43 9




                                                                  15
                                                                 15
                                               .51




                 0              0
                                                     9894.5
                                                     9527.92




                 0              0
                                            8
                                       20.9.68
                                     23 17
                                                            5




                                    1 28
                                     1
 46.05               12320.98                                          2365.02            2365.02
736.9                12817.68                                          2333.78            2333.78



                                                                                                               23 334
                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                 5 5 .3
                                                                                                                    .4 5
                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                       18.13
                                                                                                        7.98
                                                        7197.2
                                                        7532.6
             3
             8
APPENDIX C ­ SYNCHRO OUTPUT DATA
Existing 2010 PM Conditions                                                                                           Existing 2010 PM Conditions
1: Deon Dr & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                            7/1/2010   2: Jefferson Ave & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                        7/1/2010



Movement                            WBL     WBR       NET      NER         SWL      SWT                               Movement                            NBL       NBT       NBR      SBL         SBT      SBR       NEL       NET     NER      SWL      SWT         SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                   Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        17      14      1066        31         25       921                             Volume (vph)                          104      292       315      157          240      51        103      626      139      286      483         169
Sign Control                        Stop              Free                          Free                              Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900     1900      1900     1900         1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900
Grade                                0%                 0%                            0%                              Lane Width                              12       12        12       12           12     12          12       12       16       12       12          12
Peak Hour Factor                    0.91    0.91       0.91     0.91       0.91      0.91                             Total Lost time (s)                    4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2          5.7                6.2      5.7      4.0      5.5      5.8         5.8
Hourly flow rate (vph)                19      15      1171        34         27     1012                              Lane Util. Factor                    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00         1.00               1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95        1.00
Pedestrians                                                                                                           Frt                                  1.00     1.00      0.85     1.00         0.97               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00        0.85
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                       Flt Protected                        0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00        1.00
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                  Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770     1863      1583     1770         1813               1752     3505     1777     1752     3505        1568
Percent Blockage                                                                                                      Flt Permitted                        0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00        1.00
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                                Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770     1863      1583     1770         1813               1752     3505     1777     1752     3505        1568
Median type                                          None                          None                               Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97     0.97      0.97     0.97         0.97    0.97       0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97        0.97
Median storage veh)                                                                                                   Adj. Flow (vph)                       107      301       325      162          247      53        106      645      143      295      498         174
Upstream signal (ft)                                   365                                                            RTOR Reduction (vph)                     0        0      110         0            6      0           0        0        0        0        0        119
pX, platoon unblocked                0.83   0.83                            0.83                                      Lane Group Flow (vph)                 107      301       215      162          294       0        106      645      143      295      498           55
vC, conflicting volume              1581     603                           1205                                       Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%       2%        2%       2%           2%      2%         3%       3%       3%       3%       3%          3%
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                 Turn Type                            Prot             pm+ov      Prot                            Prot             Free      Prot                Perm
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                 Protected Phases                         5       2          3        1           6                   7       4                  3       8
vCu, unblocked vol                  1290     111                            837                                       Permitted Phases                                            2                                                      Free                              8
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                            4.2                                      Actuated Green, G (s)               11.9      20.7      42.2     14.2        24.2               11.9      23.5    102.0     21.5     32.3        32.3
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                       Effective Green, g (s)              11.9      20.7      42.2     14.2        24.2               11.9      23.5    102.0     21.5     32.3        32.3
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                            2.2                                      Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.12      0.20      0.41     0.14        0.24               0.12      0.23     1.00     0.21     0.32        0.32
p0 queue free %                        85      98                             96                                      Clearance Time (s)                    4.0       5.7       5.5      5.2         5.7                6.2       5.7               5.5     5.8          5.8
cM capacity (veh/h)                  124     767                            652                                       Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0       2.0       2.0      2.0         2.0                3.0       2.0               2.0     2.0          2.0
Direction, Lane #                   WB 1    NE 1      NE 2     SW 1       SW 2     SW 3       SW 4                    Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   207       378       655      246         430                204       808    1777       369    1110          497
Volume Total                           34     781       425        27       337      337        337                   v/s Ratio Prot                      0.06     c0.16      0.07    c0.09       c0.16               0.06     c0.18             c0.17     0.14
Volume Left                            19        0         0       27          0        0          0                  v/s Ratio Perm                                          0.07                                                       0.08                          0.04
Volume Right                           15        0        34        0          0        0          0                  v/c Ratio                           0.52      0.80      0.33     0.66        0.68               0.52      0.80     0.08     0.80    0.45         0.11
cSH                                   200   1700      1700       652      1700     1700       1700                    Uniform Delay, d1                   42.3      38.6      20.3     41.6        35.4               42.4      37.0      0.0     38.2    27.8         24.7
Volume to Capacity                   0.17    0.46      0.25     0.04       0.20     0.20       0.20                   Progression Factor                  1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00        1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00         1.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 15        0         0        3          0        0          0                  Incremental Delay, d2                2.2      10.4        0.1     4.8         3.6                2.2       5.2      0.1     10.8     0.1          0.0
Control Delay (s)                    26.6      0.0       0.0    10.8         0.0      0.0        0.0                  Delay (s)                           44.5      49.0      20.4     46.4        39.0               44.6      42.2      0.1     49.0    27.9         24.7
Lane LOS                                D                           B                                                 Level of Service                       D         D          C       D           D                  D         D        A        D       C            C
Approach Delay (s)                   26.6     0.0                 0.3                                                 Approach Delay (s)                            35.7                           41.6                         35.7                      33.7
Approach LOS                            D                                                                             Approach LOS                                     D                              D                            D                         C

Intersection Summary                                                                                                  Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                           0.5                                                           HCM Average Control Delay                               36.0             HCM Level of Service                         D
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    40.5%             ICU Level of Service            A              HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                            0.83
Analysis Period (min)                                    15                                                           Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              102.0             Sum of lost time (s)                      27.8
                                                                                                                      Intersection Capacity Utilization                     75.6%              ICU Level of Service                        D
                                                                                                                      Analysis Period (min)                                     15
                                                                                                                      c Critical Lane Group




Alameda                                                                                                     Page 1    Alameda                                                                                                                                       Page 2
Existing 2010 PM Conditions
3: E Alameda Rd & Jefferson Ave                                                                 7/1/2010



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT      NBR        SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        15     101      609       46        148      518
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                         Free
Grade                                0%               0%                           0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90       0.90     0.90
Hourly flow rate (vph)                17     112      677       51        164      576
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         None                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                               198
pX, platoon unblocked                0.88
vC, conflicting volume              1607     364                          728
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1621     364                          728
tC, single (s)                        6.8     6.9                          4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                          2.2
p0 queue free %                        75      82                           81
cM capacity (veh/h)                    68    636                          872
Direction, Lane #                   WB 1    WB 2     NB 1     NB 2       SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                           17     112      451      277       164       576
Volume Left                            17       0         0        0      164          0
Volume Right                            0     112         0       51         0         0
cSH                                    68     636    1700     1700        872     1700
Volume to Capacity                   0.25    0.18     0.27     0.16      0.19      0.34
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 22      16         0        0        17         0
Control Delay (s)                    74.5    11.9       0.0      0.0     10.1        0.0
Lane LOS                                F       B                            B
Approach Delay (s)                   20.0              0.0                 2.2
Approach LOS                            C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          2.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   39.8%            ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




Alameda                                                                                          Page 3
No Build 2035 PM Conditions                                                                                          No Build 2035 PM Conditions
1: Deon Dr & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                           7/1/2010   2: Jefferson Ave & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                        7/1/2010



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NET      NER         SWL      SWT                               Movement                            NBL       NBT       NBR      SBL         SBT      SBR       NEL       NET     NER      SWL      SWT         SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                  Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        18      15     1417        41         34     1244                              Volume (vph)                          111      313       337      158          242      51        141      856      190      402      679         238
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                          Free                              Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900     1900      1900     1900         1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900
Grade                                0%                0%                            0%                              Lane Width                              12       12        12       12           12     12          12       12       16       12       12          12
Peak Hour Factor                    0.91    0.91      0.91     0.91       0.91      0.91                             Total Lost time (s)                    4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2          5.7                6.2      5.7      4.0      5.5      5.8         5.8
Hourly flow rate (vph)                20      16     1557        45         37     1367                              Lane Util. Factor                    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00         1.00               1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95        1.00
Pedestrians                                                                                                          Frt                                  1.00     1.00      0.85     1.00         0.97               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00        0.85
Lane Width (ft)                                                                                                      Flt Protected                        0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00        1.00
Walking Speed (ft/s)                                                                                                 Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770     1863      1583     1770         1814               1752     3505     1777     1752     3505        1568
Percent Blockage                                                                                                     Flt Permitted                        0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00        1.00
Right turn flare (veh)                                                                                               Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770     1863      1583     1770         1814               1752     3505     1777     1752     3505        1568
Median type                                         None                          None                               Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97     0.97      0.97     0.97         0.97    0.97       0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97        0.97
Median storage veh)                                                                                                  Adj. Flow (vph)                       114      323       347      163          249      53        145      882      196      414      700         245
Upstream signal (ft)                                  365                                                            RTOR Reduction (vph)                     0        0        23        0            6      0           0        0        0        0        0        150
pX, platoon unblocked                0.75   0.75                           0.75                                      Lane Group Flow (vph)                 114      323       324      163          296       0        145      882      196      414      700           95
vC, conflicting volume              2110     801                          1602                                       Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%       2%        2%       2%           2%      2%         3%       3%       3%       3%       3%          3%
vC1, stage 1 conf vol                                                                                                Turn Type                            Prot             pm+ov      Prot                            Prot             Free      Prot                Perm
vC2, stage 2 conf vol                                                                                                Protected Phases                         5       2          3        1           6                   7       4                  3       8
vCu, unblocked vol                  1820      84                          1146                                       Permitted Phases                                            2                                                      Free                              8
tC, single (s)                        6.8    6.9                            4.2                                      Actuated Green, G (s)               10.5      23.3      53.5     12.6        26.6               14.8      32.3    120.5     30.2     46.9        46.9
tC, 2 stage (s)                                                                                                      Effective Green, g (s)              10.5      23.3      53.5     12.6        26.6               14.8      32.3    120.5     30.2     46.9        46.9
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                           2.2                                      Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.09      0.19      0.44     0.10        0.22               0.12      0.27     1.00     0.25     0.39        0.39
p0 queue free %                        59      98                            92                                      Clearance Time (s)                    4.0       5.7       5.5      5.2         5.7                6.2       5.7               5.5     5.8          5.8
cM capacity (veh/h)                    48    725                           452                                       Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0       2.0       2.0      2.0         2.0                3.0       2.0               2.0     2.0          2.0
Direction, Lane #                   WB 1    NE 1     NE 2     SW 1       SW 2     SW 3       SW 4                    Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   154       360       703      185         400                215       940    1777       439    1364          610
Volume Total                           36   1038       564        37       456      456        456                   v/s Ratio Prot                      0.06     c0.17      0.12    c0.09       c0.16               0.08     c0.25             c0.24     0.20
Volume Left                            20       0         0       37          0        0          0                  v/s Ratio Perm                                          0.09                                                       0.11                          0.06
Volume Right                           16       0        45        0          0        0          0                  v/c Ratio                           0.74      0.90      0.46     0.88        0.74               0.67      0.94     0.11     0.94    0.51         0.16
cSH                                    84   1700     1700       452      1700     1700       1700                    Uniform Delay, d1                   53.7      47.4      23.4     53.2        43.7               50.5      43.1      0.0     44.3    28.1         23.9
Volume to Capacity                   0.43    0.61     0.33     0.08       0.27     0.27       0.27                   Progression Factor                  1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00        1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00         1.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 44       0         0        7          0        0          0                  Incremental Delay, d2               17.3      23.3        0.2    34.4         6.1                8.1      16.1      0.1     28.6     0.1          0.0
Control Delay (s)                    77.4     0.0       0.0    13.7         0.0      0.0        0.0                  Delay (s)                           71.0      70.7      23.6     87.6        49.8               58.6      59.2      0.1     72.9    28.2         24.0
Lane LOS                                F                          B                                                 Level of Service                       E         E          C       F           D                  E         E        A        E       C            C
Approach Delay (s)                   77.4    0.0                 0.4                                                 Approach Delay (s)                            49.9                           63.1                         49.7                      41.1
Approach LOS                            F                                                                            Approach LOS                                     D                              E                            D                         D

Intersection Summary                                                                                                 Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          1.1                                                           HCM Average Control Delay                               48.3             HCM Level of Service                         D
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   50.5%             ICU Level of Service            A              HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                            0.98
Analysis Period (min)                                   15                                                           Actuated Cycle Length (s)                              120.5             Sum of lost time (s)                      27.8
                                                                                                                     Intersection Capacity Utilization                     89.6%              ICU Level of Service                         E
                                                                                                                     Analysis Period (min)                                     15
                                                                                                                     c Critical Lane Group




Alameda                                                                                                    Page 1    Alameda                                                                                                                                       Page 2
No Build 2035 PM Conditions
3: E Alameda Rd & Jefferson Ave                                                                 7/1/2010



Movement                            WBL     WBR      NBT      NBR        SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        16     105      658       50        159      555
Sign Control                        Stop             Free                         Free
Grade                                0%               0%                           0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90       0.90     0.90
Hourly flow rate (vph)                18     117      731       56        177      617
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                         None                         None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                               198
pX, platoon unblocked                0.89
vC, conflicting volume              1701     731                          787
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1726     731                          787
tC, single (s)                        6.4     6.2                          4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                3.5     3.3                          2.2
p0 queue free %                        74      72                           79
cM capacity (veh/h)                    69    423                          832
Direction, Lane #                   WB 1    WB 2     NB 1     NB 2       SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                           18     117      731       56       177       617
Volume Left                            18       0         0       0       177          0
Volume Right                            0     117         0      56          0         0
cSH                                    69     423    1700     1700        832     1700
Volume to Capacity                   0.26    0.28     0.43     0.03      0.21      0.36
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 23      28         0       0         20         0
Control Delay (s)                    74.9    16.7       0.0     0.0      10.5        0.0
Lane LOS                                F       C                            B
Approach Delay (s)                   24.4              0.0                 2.3
Approach LOS                            C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          3.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   56.8%            ICU Level of Service   B
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




Alameda                                                                                          Page 3
Build Option 1A/1C 2035 PM Conditions                                                                                                       Build Option 1A/1C 2035 PM Conditions
1: Deon Dr & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                  7/1/2010   2: Jefferson Ave & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                       7/1/2010



Movement                             EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL        WBT      WBR       NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        SBR     Movement                            NBL      NBT       NBR      SBL         SBT      SBR       NEL      NET      NER      SWL      SWT         SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                         Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0       0       0      90            0     61         0   1374     171     106    1172          0    Volume (vph)                           96     270       342      205          196      51        141      892      154      339      694        280
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900    1900       1900     1900      1900   1900    1900   1900     1900       1900    Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900     1900         1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900
Total Lost time (s)                                                       4.0                      4.0             4.0     4.0              Lane Width                             12       12        12       12           12     12          12       12       16       12       12        12
Lane Util. Factor                                                       1.00                      0.95           1.00     0.95              Total Lost time (s)                   4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2          5.7                6.2      5.7      4.0      5.5      5.8
Frt                                                                     0.95                      0.98           1.00     1.00              Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00         1.00               1.00     0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95
Flt Protected                                                           0.97                      1.00           0.95     1.00              Frt                                  1.00    1.00      0.85     1.00         0.97               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.96
Satd. Flow (prot)                                                      1727                      3447           1752     3505               Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Flt Permitted                                                           0.82                      1.00           0.95     1.00              Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863      1583     1770         1805               1752     3505     1777     3400     3354
Satd. Flow (perm)                                                      1453                      3447           1752     3505               Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97   0.97    0.97     0.97       0.97    0.97      0.97    0.97   0.97    0.97     0.97       0.97   Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1863      1583     1770         1805               1752     3505     1777     3400     3354
Adj. Flow (vph)                         0      0       0       93           0     63         0   1416     176     109    1208           0   Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97    0.97      0.97     0.97         0.97    0.97       0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97        0.97
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      0       0        0          26      0         0       8      0        0       0          0   Adj. Flow (vph)                        99     278       353      211          202      53        145      920      159      349      715         289
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0      0       0        0        130       0         0   1584       0     109    1208           0   RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0        0        38        0           10      0           0        0        0        0       41          0
Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%     2%      2%       1%         2%      1%        2%      3%     3%      3%       3%         2%    Lane Group Flow (vph)                  99     278       315      211          245       0        145      920      159      349      963           0
Turn Type                           Perm                    Perm                          Prot                   Prot               Perm    Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%      2%        2%       2%           2%      2%         3%       3%       3%       3%       3%          3%
Protected Phases                               4                           8                 5      2                1      6               Turn Type                            Prot            pm+ov      Prot                            Prot             Free      Prot
Permitted Phases                       4                       8                                                                       6    Protected Phases                        5       2          3        1           6                   7       4                  3       8
Actuated Green, G (s)                                                  13.5                       63.8           10.7     78.5              Permitted Phases                                           2                                                      Free
Effective Green, g (s)                                                 13.5                       63.8           10.7     78.5              Actuated Green, G (s)                 8.8    18.8      30.3     13.7        24.9                 9.4     33.9    100.0    11.5      35.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                                                     0.14                       0.64           0.11     0.78              Effective Green, g (s)                8.8    18.8      30.3     13.7        24.9                 9.4     33.9    100.0    11.5      35.2
Clearance Time (s)                                                       4.0                       4.0             4.0     4.0              Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.09     0.19      0.30     0.14        0.25               0.09      0.34     1.00    0.12      0.35
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                    3.0                       3.0             3.0     3.0              Clearance Time (s)                    4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2         5.7                6.2      5.7               5.5      5.8
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                                                      196                      2199             187    2751               Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0      2.0       2.0      2.0         2.0                3.0      2.0               2.0      2.0
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                                   c0.46          c0.06     0.34              Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   156      350       480      242         449                165     1188     1777      391     1181
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.09                                                                 v/s Ratio Prot                      0.06    c0.15      0.08    c0.12        0.14               0.08     c0.26             0.10     c0.29
v/c Ratio                                                              0.66                       0.72           0.58    0.44               v/s Ratio Perm                                         0.12                                                       0.09
Uniform Delay, d1                                                      41.1                       12.1           42.5     3.5               v/c Ratio                           0.63     0.79      0.66     0.87        0.55               0.88      0.77     0.09    0.89      0.82
Progression Factor                                                     1.00                       0.52           1.00    1.00               Uniform Delay, d1                   44.0     38.8      30.3     42.3        32.6               44.7      29.6      0.0    43.6      29.4
Incremental Delay, d2                                                   8.2                        1.4            4.6     0.5               Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00        1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00    1.02      0.87
Delay (s)                                                              49.3                        7.7           47.1     4.0               Incremental Delay, d2                8.2     11.0        2.5    26.6         0.7               37.2       5.0      0.1    20.0       5.8
Level of Service                                                          D                          A              D       A               Delay (s)                           52.2     49.8      32.8     68.8        33.4               82.0      34.6      0.1    64.6      31.5
Approach Delay (s)                           0.0                       49.3                        7.7                    7.6               Level of Service                       D        D          C       E           C                  F         C        A       E         C
Approach LOS                                   A                          D                          A                      A               Approach Delay (s)                           41.9                           49.4                         35.7                       40.0
                                                                                                                                            Approach LOS                                    D                              D                            D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             9.8          HCM Level of Service                    A                                Intersection Summary
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.69                                                                                   HCM Average Control Delay                              40.1             HCM Level of Service                         D
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           100.0          Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0                               HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.78
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.0%           ICU Level of Service                    C                                Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             100.0             Sum of lost time (s)                      16.7
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                                   Intersection Capacity Utilization                    80.6%              ICU Level of Service                        D
c Critical Lane Group                                                                                                                       Analysis Period (min)                                    15
                                                                                                                                            c Critical Lane Group




Alameda                                                                                                                           Page 1    Alameda                                                                                                                                      Page 2
Build Option 10 2035 PM Conditions                                                                                                          Build Option 10 2035 PM Conditions
1: Deon Dr & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                  7/1/2010   2: Jefferson Ave & Pocatello Creek Rd                                                                                                       7/1/2010



Movement                             EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL        WBT      WBR       NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        SBR     Movement                            NBL      NBT       NBR      SBL         SBT      SBR       NEL      NET      NER      SWL      SWT         SWR
Lane Configurations                                                                                                                         Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                           0       0       0      90            0     61         0   1374     171     106    1172          0    Volume (vph)                           96     270       342      205          196      51        141      892      154      339      694        280
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900    1900    1900       1900     1900      1900   1900    1900   1900     1900       1900    Ideal Flow (vphpl)                  1900    1900      1900     1900         1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900
Total Lost time (s)                                                       4.0                      4.0             4.0     4.0              Lane Width                             12       12        12       12           12     12          12       12       16       12       12        12
Lane Util. Factor                                                       1.00                      0.95           1.00     0.95              Total Lost time (s)                   4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2          5.7                6.2      5.7      5.7      5.5      5.8
Frt                                                                     0.95                      0.98           1.00     1.00              Lane Util. Factor                    1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00         1.00               1.00     0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95
Flt Protected                                                           0.97                      1.00           0.95     1.00              Frt                                  1.00    1.00      0.85     1.00         0.97               1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     0.96
Satd. Flow (prot)                                                      1727                      3447           1752     3505               Flt Protected                        0.95    1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Flt Permitted                                                           0.82                      1.00           0.95     1.00              Satd. Flow (prot)                   1770    1863      1583     1770         1805               1752     3505     1777     3400     3354
Satd. Flow (perm)                                                      1453                      3447           1752     3505               Flt Permitted                        0.95    1.00      1.00     0.95         1.00               0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00
Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97   0.97    0.97     0.97       0.97    0.97      0.97    0.97   0.97    0.97     0.97       0.97   Satd. Flow (perm)                   1770    1863      1583     1770         1805               1752     3505     1777     3400     3354
Adj. Flow (vph)                         0      0       0       93           0     63         0   1416     176     109    1208           0   Peak-hour factor, PHF                0.97    0.97      0.97     0.97         0.97    0.97       0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97        0.97
RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0      0       0        0          26      0         0       8      0        0       0          0   Adj. Flow (vph)                        99     278       353      211          202      53        145      920      159      349      715         289
Lane Group Flow (vph)                   0      0       0        0        130       0         0   1584       0     109    1208           0   RTOR Reduction (vph)                    0        0        38        0           10      0           0        0     100         0       41          0
Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%     2%      2%       1%         2%      1%        2%      3%     3%      3%       3%         2%    Lane Group Flow (vph)                  99     278       315      211          245       0        145      920        59     349      963           0
Turn Type                           Perm                    Perm                          Prot                   Prot               Perm    Heavy Vehicles (%)                    2%      2%        2%       2%           2%      2%         3%       3%       3%       3%       3%          3%
Protected Phases                               4                           8                 5      2                1      6               Turn Type                            Prot            pm+ov      Prot                            Prot             Perm      Prot
Permitted Phases                       4                       8                                                                       6    Protected Phases                        5       2          3        1           6                   7       4                  3       8
Actuated Green, G (s)                                                  13.5                       63.8           10.7     78.5              Permitted Phases                                           2                                                          4
Effective Green, g (s)                                                 13.5                       63.8           10.7     78.5              Actuated Green, G (s)                 8.8    18.8      30.3     13.7        24.9                 9.4     33.9     33.9    11.5      35.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                                                     0.14                       0.64           0.11     0.78              Effective Green, g (s)                8.8    18.8      30.3     13.7        24.9                 9.4     33.9     33.9    11.5      35.2
Clearance Time (s)                                                       4.0                       4.0             4.0     4.0              Actuated g/C Ratio                  0.09     0.19      0.30     0.14        0.25               0.09      0.34     0.34    0.12      0.35
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                    3.0                       3.0             3.0     3.0              Clearance Time (s)                    4.0      5.7       5.5      5.2         5.7                6.2      5.7       5.7     5.5      5.8
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                                                      196                      2199             187    2751               Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0      2.0       2.0      2.0         2.0                3.0      2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0
v/s Ratio Prot                                                                                   c0.46          c0.06     0.34              Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   156      350       480      242         449                165     1188       602     391     1181
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.09                                                                 v/s Ratio Prot                      0.06    c0.15      0.08    c0.12        0.14               0.08     c0.26             0.10     c0.29
v/c Ratio                                                              0.66                       0.72           0.58    0.44               v/s Ratio Perm                                         0.12                                                       0.03
Uniform Delay, d1                                                      41.1                       12.1           42.5     3.5               v/c Ratio                           0.63     0.79      0.66     0.87        0.55               0.88      0.77     0.10    0.89      0.82
Progression Factor                                                     1.00                       0.52           1.00    1.00               Uniform Delay, d1                   44.0     38.8      30.3     42.3        32.6               44.7      29.6     22.6    43.6      29.4
Incremental Delay, d2                                                   8.2                        1.4            4.6     0.5               Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00        1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00    1.02      0.87
Delay (s)                                                              49.3                        7.7           47.1     4.0               Incremental Delay, d2                8.2     11.0        2.5    26.6         0.7               37.2       5.0      0.3    20.0       5.8
Level of Service                                                          D                          A              D       A               Delay (s)                           52.2     49.8      32.8     68.8        33.4               82.0      34.6     22.9    64.6      31.5
Approach Delay (s)                           0.0                       49.3                        7.7                    7.6               Level of Service                       D        D          C       E           C                  F         C        C       E         C
Approach LOS                                   A                          D                          A                      A               Approach Delay (s)                           41.9                           49.4                         38.7                       40.0
                                                                                                                                            Approach LOS                                    D                              D                            D                          D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             9.8          HCM Level of Service                    A                                Intersection Summary
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.69                                                                                   HCM Average Control Delay                              41.1             HCM Level of Service                         D
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           100.0          Sum of lost time (s)                  12.0                               HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.78
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  68.0%           ICU Level of Service                    C                                Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             100.0             Sum of lost time (s)                      16.7
Analysis Period (min)                                  15                                                                                   Intersection Capacity Utilization                    80.6%              ICU Level of Service                        D
c Critical Lane Group                                                                                                                       Analysis Period (min)                                    15
                                                                                                                                            c Critical Lane Group




Alameda                                                                                                                           Page 1    Alameda                                                                                                                                      Page 2
APPENDIX D ­ CRASH HISTORY AND ANALYSIS DATA
ITD-2658        7-99

                                            SAFETY EVALUATION
I. PROJECT DATA
                             DISTRICT ROUTE SEG CODE                 B.M.P.           E.M.P. LENGTH AADT TYPE RDWY
      EXIST. RDWY                5   SMA-7331 3250                    1.00             1.04     SPOT    18.3        6
                                                                                            PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT
       LOCATION                     Jefferson Avenue & Alameda Road                                   COST (1000)
                                                                                       LIFE    CONST    R/W       TOTAL
   IMPROVEMENT                      Prohibit Turning Movements (XIIIC)                  10                          0

II. ACCIDENT SUMMARY - SIGNIFICANCE
MO. YR.     TOTAL       FATAL            INJURY               I+F            PDO          SV        MV   WET    DRY
 12 2004       4                             2                  2             2                      4    1      3
 12 2005       5                             0                  0             5            1         4           5
 12 2006       4                             0                  0             4                      4           4
 12 2007       1                             1                  1                                    1           1
 12 2008       3                             1                  1                 2                  3           3
TOTAL------   17            0                4                  4                                                          0           0
AVE. SEVERITY % FOR THIS ROAD TYPE--------                    28.9               71.1
EXPECTED I+F AND PDO ACCIDENTS--------------                   4.9               12.1
DIFFERENCE (DEVIATION FROM EXPECTED)---                       -0.9                            SPOT INTERSECTION (INCLUDE X STREET)
STATISTICALLY SIGNIFICANT?--------------------------          NO                              SPOT NON-INTERSECTION
CONFIDENCE LEVEL----------------------------------------        -                             SEGMENT (ALL ACCIDENTS)

III. TRAFFIC DATA
   1            2       3             4     5      6       7             8        9       10                     11               12
               AADT (1000)                       TOTAL NO. OF                  TOTAL TRAVEL
                                CROSS VCF                            ACC/YR MV/YR      MVM/YR                 ACC/MV      ACC/MVM
 PRES.         FUT.    AVE.     STREET (3÷1)   YEARS        ACC.     (7 ÷ 6) .365(1+4) (9 x MI.)               (8 ÷ 9)     (8 ÷ 10)
  18.3         50.2    34.25              1.87   5           17       3.40      6.68       -                    0.51           -

IV. REDUCTION FACTOR
           1                    2                   3                    4                          5                      6
                                                BASE RATE            EXPECTED                      D.R.                 CALC.
      ACC/MVM                  R.F.             ACC/MV(M)            ACC/MV(M)                    MV(M)                  R.F.
                                                                                               1-(>3 OR 4)              (5 ÷ 1)
        0.51                   0.4                  0.58                     *                      *                      *

V. SAFETY INDEX CALCULATION (METHOD I)
  1             2           3         4
               ACC.      BEFORE ACC. COST
                              ($1000)
         TYPE NO.         COST      TOTAL
          I+F                                            5           6             7        8            9       10            11
         PDO                                          $/ACC.       ACC./YR        VCF     LIFE       1.00-CRF $ BEFORE      $ AFTER
YES(+)
YES(-)
 NO                16.363                           3.4   1.87                                10      #VALUE! 1041.24 #VALUE!
SAFETY INDEX = (BOX 10 - BOX 11) ÷ TOTAL COST =       #VALUE!                             ÷        #VALUE! =          0
ANNUAL SAFETY BENEFIT = (BOX 10 - BOX 11) ÷ (BOX 8) = #VALUE!                             ÷        #VALUE! =      #VALUE!

COMPUTED BY:                 Jeremy Robbins                DATE: 06/29/10                PROJECT NO.:

CHECKED BY:                                                DATE:                         KEY NUMBER:
ITD-2658   7-99
 (REVERSE SIDE)
                                  SAFETY EVALUATION
                                    -SUPPLEMENTAL-
VI. ACCIDENT COSTS (METHOD II)
    1        2       3       4                    5       6        7
          BEFORE ACCIDENTS                        EXPECTED ACCIDENTS
   TYPE     NO.    COST    TOTAL                 NO.    COST     TOTAL
   I+F
   PDO
  TOTAL

VII. SAFETY INDEX CALCULATION (METHOD II)
      1           2           3              4               5              6         7
  BEFORE     EXPECTED                                                    BEFORE   EXPECTED
   $/ACC       $/ACC       ACC/YR           VCF             LIFE          COST      COST

SAFETY INDEX = (BOX 6 - BOX 7) ÷ TOTAL COST =                      ÷        =
 ANNUAL SAFETY BENEFIT = (BOX 6 - BOX 7) ÷ (BOX 5) =               ÷        =

COMMENTS:
ITD-2658        7-99

                                            SAFETY EVALUATION
I. PROJECT DATA
                             DISTRICT ROUTE SEG CODE                 B.M.P.      E.M.P. LENGTH AADT TYPE RDWY
      EXIST. RDWY                5   7101/7161 3190/3180              4.90        4.90     SPOT    38.4        33
                                                                                       PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT
       LOCATION              Alameda/Pocatello Creek Rd/Jefferson Ave                            COST (1000)
                                                                                  LIFE    CONST    R/W       TOTAL
   IMPROVEMENT                        Reconstruct Intersection (VIF2)              20                          0

II. ACCIDENT SUMMARY - SIGNIFICANCE
MO. YR.     TOTAL       FATAL           INJURY                I+F            PDO       SV        MV   WET      DRY
 12 2004       3            0                1                  1             2                   3    1        2
 12 2005       6            0                1                  1             5                   6    1        5
 12 2006       4            0                1                  1             3        1          3             4
 12 2007       8            0                2                  2             6                   8      2      6
 12 2008       3            0                1                  1             2                   3             3
TOTAL------   24            0                6                  6             18       1         23      4      20      0           0
AVE. SEVERITY % FOR THIS ROAD TYPE--------                    34.2           65.8
EXPECTED I+F AND PDO ACCIDENTS--------------                   8.2           15.8
DIFFERENCE (DEVIATION FROM EXPECTED)---                       -2.2                         SPOT INTERSECTION (INCLUDE X STREET)
STATISTICALLY SIGNIFICANT?--------------------------          NO                           SPOT NON-INTERSECTION
CONFIDENCE LEVEL----------------------------------------        -                          SEGMENT (ALL ACCIDENTS)

III. TRAFFIC DATA
   1            2       3             4     5      6       7            8        9        10                   11              12
               AADT (1000)                       TOTAL NO. OF                  TOTAL TRAVEL
                                CROSS VCF                            ACC/YR MV/YR      MVM/YR                ACC/MV     ACC/MVM
 PRES.         FUT.    AVE.     STREET (3÷1)   YEARS        ACC.     (7 ÷ 6) .365(1+4) (9 x MI.)              (8 ÷ 9)    (8 ÷ 10)
  38.4         50.2    44.30              1.15   5           24       4.80     14.02       -                   0.34          -

IV. REDUCTION FACTOR
           1                    2                   3                    4                      5                       6
                                                BASE RATE            EXPECTED                  D.R.                  CALC.
      ACC/MVM                  R.F.             ACC/MV(M)            ACC/MV(M)                MV(M)                   R.F.
                                                                                           1-(>3 OR 4)               (5 ÷ 1)
        0.34                   0.4                  0.58                    *                   *                       *

V. SAFETY INDEX CALCULATION (METHOD I)
  1             2           3         4
               ACC.      BEFORE ACC. COST
                              ($1000)
         TYPE NO.         COST      TOTAL
          I+F                                             5          6           7       8            9       10            11
         PDO                                           $/ACC.      ACC./YR      VCF    LIFE       1.00-CRF $ BEFORE      $ AFTER
YES(+)
YES(-)
 NO                16.363                           4.8   1.15                             20      #VALUE!     1812.2   #VALUE!
SAFETY INDEX = (BOX 10 - BOX 11) ÷ TOTAL COST =       #VALUE!                          ÷        #VALUE! =              0
ANNUAL SAFETY BENEFIT = (BOX 10 - BOX 11) ÷ (BOX 8) = #VALUE!                          ÷        #VALUE! =           #VALUE!

COMPUTED BY:                 Jeremy Robbins                DATE: 06/29/10             PROJECT NO.:

CHECKED BY:                                                DATE:                      KEY NUMBER:
ITD-2658   7-99
 (REVERSE SIDE)
                                  SAFETY EVALUATION
                                    -SUPPLEMENTAL-
VI. ACCIDENT COSTS (METHOD II)
    1        2       3       4                    5       6        7
          BEFORE ACCIDENTS                        EXPECTED ACCIDENTS
   TYPE     NO.    COST    TOTAL                 NO.    COST     TOTAL
   I+F
   PDO
  TOTAL

VII. SAFETY INDEX CALCULATION (METHOD II)
      1           2           3              4               5              6         7
  BEFORE     EXPECTED                                                    BEFORE   EXPECTED
   $/ACC       $/ACC       ACC/YR           VCF             LIFE          COST      COST

SAFETY INDEX = (BOX 6 - BOX 7) ÷ TOTAL COST =                      ÷        =
 ANNUAL SAFETY BENEFIT = (BOX 6 - BOX 7) ÷ (BOX 5) =               ÷        =

COMMENTS:
      Total Accidents: 41               Total Fatalities: 0
           Total Units: 81               Total Injuries: 14
          Total People: 132
Report Criteria:

                                                         Intersection Analysis Report
Streets :
Alameda Rd - Pocatello        Counties:Bannock, Cities:Pocatello,Chubbuck,
Jefferson Ave
Pocatello Creek Rd
Hiline Rd
Use intersection related accidents
Data From: 01/2004 - 12/2008


                                            N REF.                                         SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave 40.00 F               Alameda Rd      LANE: 51                         003250                MILEPOST:1.4830                         11/21/2008 17:07
                                          STREET:                                             CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                           OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C216852                           08-P25254      LIGHT: Day              WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                               COND:
                                                                                                      Property Dmg                  Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0               SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                      Report                        Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                    Intersection                      ,Improper Lane
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV            DIR: N            ACTION: Changing Lanes      EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                    Related                           Change
                                                                                                      Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 24 M                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident     PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                      CIT:
                                                                                                      Bag- Belts In Use
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V2:    Car                             DIR: N            ACTION: Going Straight      EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                      Related
                                                                                                    Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 19 F                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident     PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                      CIT:
                                                                                                    Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                           SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                  AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 51                         003250                MILEPOST:1.0470                         9/30/2008 15:53
                                                                                              CODE:
                                            LOCAL                                                                                                          OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C212790                           08-P21424      LIGHT: Day              WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                 None
                                             CODE:                                                                                                              COND:
                                                                                                    Property Dmg                      Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0               SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                     Y
                                                                                                    Report                            Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                                                       Improper Lane
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV            DIR: N            ACTION: Going Straight      EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                                                       Change
                                                                                                                                                                       Insurance, failure to
                                                                                                      Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 18 F                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident     PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                   CIT: provide proof - 49-
                                                                                                      Bag- Belts In Use
                                                                                                                                                                       1232
        V2:    Truck 3+ Axle                   DIR: N            ACTION: Going Straight      EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 29 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident     PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                      CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image
               Pocatello Creek Rd           E REF.                                              SEGMENT
ON:                                                Hiline Rd        LANE: 49                             001360                 MILEPOST:4.9850                     8/16/2008 18:19
               11.00 F                    STREET:                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                               OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C208696                           08-P17769       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                   WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                   COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                     Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                         AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                         Report                           Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                          Intersection
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV           DIR: W              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                    LOC:                         CONTRB: Inattention
                                                                                                                                          Related
                                                                                                                                                                              Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 45 F                               RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap          EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                              - 49-638
                                                                                                                                            Intersection
        V2:    Motorcycle                     DIR: W              ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                    LOC:                         CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                            Related
   DR1-AGE: 69 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Helmet Used               EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd 198.00 F           N AND: Parking Lot      LANE: 50                             003250                 MILEPOST:1.1040                     4/19/2008 14:30
                                                                                                   CODE:
                                            LOCAL                                                                                                              OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C200910                           08-P07692       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                   WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                             CODE:                                                                                                                  COND:
                                                                                                                                          Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 1                   SEVERITY: C Injury Accident       AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                                                          Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                          Intersection
        V1:    Car                            DIR: W              ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning               LOC:                         CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                                                          Related
                                                                                                                                                                              Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 21 M                               RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap          EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                              turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                            DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle Turning               LOC: Nonjunction             CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                                                            Insurance, failure to
                                                                                                           Air Bag Activated-
  DR1-AGE: 77 F                               RES: Idaho          INJURY: Possible             PROT-DEV:                           EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT: provide proof - 49-
                                                                                                           Belts In Use
                                                                                                                                                                            1232
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                            S REF.                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave 33.00 F               Alameda Rd       LANE: 51                             003250                 MILEPOST:1.0410                     4/22/2008 17:49
                                          STREET:                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                               OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C200616                           08-P07914       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                   WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                   COND:
                                                                                                           Property Dmg                   Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                         AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                           Report                         Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                          Intersection
        V1:    Car                            DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                    LOC:                         CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                          Related
                                                                                                         Non-Activated Air                                                    Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 43 M                               RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                           EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                         Bag- Belts In Use                                                    - 49-638
                                                                                                                                            Intersection
        V2:    Car                            DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                    LOC:                         CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                            Related
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 33 F                               RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                           EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image
                                                  Jefferson                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND:                LANE: 50                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9830                        3/3/2005 08:21
                                                  Ave                                           CODE:
                                           LOCAL 2005-                                                                                                    OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C096678                                        LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Cloudy               WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE: P04473                                                                                                       COND:
                                                                                                      Property Dmg                   Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0           INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                      Report                         Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                            DIR: W           ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: ,Failed To Yield
                                                                                                      Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 34 M                              RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Obey Signs
                                                                                                      Bag- Belts In Use
        V2:    Car                            DIR: S           ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 17 M                             RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                             SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND: Hiline Rd      LANE: 50                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9830                       12/4/2004 14:54
                                                                                                CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                          OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C086212                          04-P27412     LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                              COND:
                                                                                                                                     Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0           INJURIES: 1                   SEVERITY: C Injury Accident    AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                                                     Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                            DIR: S           ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Disregarded Signal
  DR1-AGE: 26 M                              RES: Montana      INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: None                   EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
        V2:    Car                            DIR: E           ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                      Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 36 F                              RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                      Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                          W REF. Jefferson                                   SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd 10.00 F                                LANE: 49                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9810                       11/11/2004 13:38
                                         STREET: Ave                                            CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                           OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C084503                         04-P25689      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Cloudy               WET/DRY: Wet                               None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                               COND:
                                                                                                        Property Dmg                Pocatello Police    INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0           INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                        Report                      Dept                    RELATED:
                                                                                                                                    Intersection
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV           DIR: E           ACTION: Merging                 EVENT: Rear-End Turning         LOC:                           CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                    Related
  DR1-AGE: 52 M                              RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Prf Of Ins
                                                                                                                                    Intersection
        V2:    Car                            DIR: E           ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear-End Turning         LOC:                           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                    Related
                                                                                                      Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 24 F                              RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                      Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image
                                           N REF.                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave 4.00 F               Alameda Rd       LANE: 51                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0480                       11/1/2004 16:02
                                         STREET:                                                  CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                             OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C082991                          04-P24889       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Cloudy               WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                 COND:
                                                                                                                                      Pocatello Police    INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 1                   SEVERITY: C Injury Accident    AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                                                      Dept                    RELATED:
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                           CONTRB: ,Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                      Related
  DR1-AGE: 80 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Ftc
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                      Related
   DR1-AGE: 38 F                             RES: Idaho          INJURY: Possible             PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd       LANE: 50                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0000                       10/3/2004 14:10
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C080495                          04-P22539       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                          Report                       Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Side Swipe Same          LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
  DR1-AGE: 18 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Fty41
        V2:    Car                           DIR: S              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Side Swipe Same          LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 80 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                    Jefferson                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND:                  LANE: 50                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9830                        9/1/2004 08:45
                                                    Ave                                           CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C077178                          04-P19819       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                          Report                       Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: E              ACTION: Negotiating Curve       EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Inattention
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 28 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 87 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd       LANE: 50                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0000                        8/2/2004 12:53
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                                OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C074830                          04-P17127      LIGHT: Day                      WEATHER: Clear                 WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                    COND:
                                                                                                                                           Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 1                       SEVERITY: B Injury Accident     AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                                                           Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: E             ACTION: Turning Left                EVENT: Pedalcycle                LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 68 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident             PROT-DEV:                         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use
                                                                          Walk/Ride With
        V2:    Pedalcycle                    DIR: N             ACTION:                             EVENT: Pedalcycle                LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                          Traffic No Bike Lane
                                                                                                                                          Thrown From
  DR1-AGE: 13 M                              RES:               INJURY: Non-Incapacitating       PROT-DEV: None                    EJECT:                                CIT:
                                                                                                                                          Cycle/Animal
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                                 003250               MILEPOST:1.0470                        1/7/2004 16:10
                                                                                                     CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                                OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       04C055296                          04-P00535      LIGHT: Day                      WEATHER: Cloudy                WET/DRY: Wet                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                    COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                  Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                       SEVERITY:                       AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                             Report                        Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Turning Left                EVENT: Angle Turning             LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: ,Failed To Yield
  DR1-AGE: 17 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident             PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Fty41
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: S             ACTION: Going Straight              EVENT: Angle Turning             LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 32 F                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident             PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: Prf Of Ins
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                                 003250               MILEPOST:1.0470                       1/15/2008 19:20
                                                                                                     CODE:
                                           LOCAL                          Dark, Street Lights                                                                   OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       08C191198                          08-P00974      LIGHT:                          WEATHER: Cloudy                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                         On                                                                                         COND:
                                                                                                                                          Pocatello Police    INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 2                       SEVERITY: C Injury Accident     AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                                                          Dept                    RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: S             ACTION: Turning Left                EVENT: Head-On Turning           LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                           Air Bag Activated-                                                   Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 20 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: Possible                 PROT-DEV:                         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                           Belts In Use                                                         turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight              EVENT: Head-On Turning           LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 55 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: Possible                 PROT-DEV:                         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND: Hiline Rd       LANE: 50                                 001360               MILEPOST:4.9830                       12/20/2007 21:59
                                                                                                     CODE:
                                           LOCAL                        Dark, Street Lights                                                                     OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C188197                          07-P27073      LIGHT:                          WEATHER: Cloudy                WET/DRY: Wet                               None
                                            CODE:                       On                                                                                          COND:
                                                                                                        Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                    SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                        Report                          Dept                     RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: S             ACTION: Going Straight           EVENT: Angle                      LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: ,Failed To Yield
                                                                                                          Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 16 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident          PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                          Bag- Belts In Use
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: W             ACTION: Going Straight           EVENT: Angle                      LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 30 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident          PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND: Hiline Rd       LANE: 52                              001360                MILEPOST:4.9830                        12/12/2007 19:58
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                        Dark, Street Lights                                                                    OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C188082                          07-P26500      LIGHT:                       WEATHER: Cloudy                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                       On                                                                                          COND:
                                                                                                        Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                    SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                        Report                          Dept                     RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: W             ACTION: Backing                  EVENT: Backed Into                LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Improper Backing
                                                                                                                                                                               Backing violations -
  DR1-AGE: 68 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident          PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                               49-604
        V2:    Car                           DIR: E             ACTION: Turning Left             EVENT: Backed Into                LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 55 F                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident          PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



               Pocatello Creek Rd          E REF.                                              SEGMENT
ON:                                               Hiline Rd       LANE: 51                              001360                MILEPOST:5.0300                        11/27/2007 16:06
               250.00 F                  STREET:                                                  CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                                OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C185565                          07-P25406      LIGHT: Day                   WEATHER: Cloudy                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                    COND:
                                                                                                                                        Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 2                    SEVERITY: C Injury Accident      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                                                        Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Going Straight           EVENT: Rear End                   LOC:                            CONTRB: Inattention
                                                                                                                                        Related
                                                                                                          Non-Activated Air                                                    Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 37 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident          PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                          Bag- Belts In Use                                                    - 49-638
                                                                                                                                          Intersection
        V2:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Stopped In Traffic       EVENT: Rear End                   LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                          Related
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 56 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: Possible              PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                              003250                MILEPOST:1.0470                        11/21/2007 20:14
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                        Dark, Street Lights                                                                    OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C184918                          07-P25109      LIGHT:                       WEATHER: Cloudy                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                       On                                                                                          COND:
                                                                                                                                          Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 2                    SEVERITY: A Injury Accident      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                                                          Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Head-On Turning          LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB: Disregarded Signal
                                                                                                                                                                            Signaling violations -
  DR1-AGE: 18 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: Incapacitating          PROT-DEV: None                   EJECT: Not Ejected                   CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                            49-808
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: S              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Head-On Turning          LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                                                                Failure to wear seat
  DR1-AGE: 47 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: None                   EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                                belt -- 49-673
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd 250.00 F          N AND: Parking Lot      LANE: 50                                003250              MILEPOST:1.1130                        10/27/2007 23:25
                                                                                                     CODE:
                                           LOCAL                           Dark, Street Lights                                                                  OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C182832                          07-P23318       LIGHT:                         WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                          On                                                                                        COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                  Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                             Report                        Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: W              ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air                                                    Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 30 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use                                                    turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air                                                    No valid license - 49-
  DR1-AGE: 20 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use                                                    301
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                           N REF. Pocatello                                       SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd 125.00 F                                  LANE: 50                                003250              MILEPOST:1.0900                        9/12/2007 16:45
                                         STREET: Creek Rd                                            CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                                 OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C179284                          07-P19771       LIGHT: Day                     WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                     COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                             Report                      Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                         Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: S              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                            CONTRB: Inattention
                                                                                                                                         Related
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air                                                    Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 47 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use                                                    - 49-638
                                                                                                                                           Intersection
        V2:    Car                           DIR: S              ACTION: Stopped In Traffic         EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                           Related
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 17 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



               Pocatello Creek Rd          E REF.                                                 SEGMENT
ON:                                               Hiline Rd        LANE: 52                                001360              MILEPOST:4.9890                        2/23/2007 21:34
               30.00 F                   STREET:                                                     CODE:
                                          LOCAL                            Dark, Street Lights                                                                  OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C996161                          07-P03559       LIGHT:                         WEATHER: Snow                 WET/DRY: Ice                                None
                                           CODE:                           On                                                                                        COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                             Report                      Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                         Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                            CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                         Related
                                                                                                            Non-Activated Air                                                    Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 32 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                            Bag- Belts In Use                                                    - 49-638
                                                                                                                                            Intersection
        V2:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Stopped In Traffic         EVENT: Rear End                   LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                            Related
                                                                                                            Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 25 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                            Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                 SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND: Hiline Rd       LANE: 50                                001360                MILEPOST:4.9830                        1/25/2007 18:27
                                                                                                    CODE:
                                           LOCAL                          Dark, Street Lights                                                                    OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C160354                          07-P01579      LIGHT:                         WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                         On                                                                                          COND:
                                                                                                                                          Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 2                      SEVERITY: A Injury Accident      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                                                          Dept                     RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: E             ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: ,Inattention
                                                                                                                                                                                 Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 68 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: Incapacitating          PROT-DEV: None                     EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                                 turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                          Air Bag Activated-                                                     Failure to wear seat
  DR1-AGE: 35 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: Non-Incapacitating      PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                          No Belts In Use                                                        belt -- 49-673
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                           E REF. Jefferson                                      SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd 60.00 F                                 LANE: 52                                001360                MILEPOST:4.9940                        1/10/2007 16:23
                                         STREET: Ave                                                CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                                  OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       07C158398                          07-P00576      LIGHT: Day                     WEATHER: Cloudy                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                      COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                          Report                          Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                          Intersection                      Improper Lane
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Changing Lanes             EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                          Related                           Change
                                                                                                            Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 18 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                            Bag- Belts In Use
                                                                                                                                            Intersection
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: W             ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                            Related
                                                                                                          Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 28 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                          Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                 SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                                003250                MILEPOST:1.0000                        10/4/2006 17:28
                                                                                                    CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                                 OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C148619                          06-P21682      LIGHT: Day                     WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                     COND:
                                                                                                            Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                            Report                          Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: S             ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                                                                                                 Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 25 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                                 turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 33 M                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                             003250                MILEPOST:1.0000                        7/13/2006 17:50
                                                                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                              OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C142049                          06-P14794      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                  COND:
                                                                                                       Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                       Report                          Dept                     RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: S             ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                         Non-Activated Air                                                    Failure to yield, right
  DR1-AGE: 27 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                         Bag- Belts In Use                                                    of way - 49-640
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
   DR1-AGE: 17 F                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                             003250                MILEPOST:1.0470                        6/22/2006 14:00
                                                                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                              OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C140889                          06-P12742      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                  COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                         Report                          Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Turning Right           EVENT: Rear-End Turning           LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                       Non-Activated Air                                                      Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 83 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                       Bag- Belts In Use                                                      - 49-638
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear-End Turning           LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                       Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 49 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                       Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                           N REF.                                             SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd 50.00 F                  Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                             003250                MILEPOST:1.0750                        6/27/2006 13:44
                                         STREET:                                                 CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                               OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C140588                          06P13195       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                   COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                  Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                         Report                        Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                       Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                   LOC:                            CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                       Related
                                                                                                         Non-Activated Air                                                    Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 62 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                         Bag- Belts In Use                                                    - 49-638
                                                                                                                                         Intersection
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                   LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                         Related
   DR1-AGE: 23 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Pocatello Creek Rd             AND: Hiline Rd       LANE: 51                             001360                MILEPOST:4.9830                      6/21/2006 08:37
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                            LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C139747                           06-P12625      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                             CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                        Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                        Report                          Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV           DIR: W             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Rear End                   LOC: In Intersection         CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                                                            Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 21 M                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                            - 49-638
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV           DIR: W             ACTION: Slowing In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                   LOC: In Intersection         CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 58 F                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                            N REF.                                             SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave 75.00 F               Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                             003250                MILEPOST:1.0610                      6/16/2006 11:38
                                          STREET:                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                             OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C139227                           06-P12218      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                 COND:
                                                                                                        Property Dmg                    Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                       FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                        Report                          Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V1:    Car                            DIR: N             ACTION: Changing Lanes          EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                         CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                        Related
  DR1-AGE: 55 F                               RES: Montana       INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V2:    Car                            DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC:                         CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                        Related
                                                                                                          Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 21 F                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                          Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                            N REF.                                             SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd 190.00 F                  Alameda Rd      LANE: 00                             003250                MILEPOST:1.1020                      6/12/2006 16:55
                                          STREET:                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                             OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C138926                           06-P11914      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                              None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                 COND:
                                                                                                                                        Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 1                       FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 1                   SEVERITY: C Injury Accident      AGENCY:                                  Y
                                                                                                                                        Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV           DIR: N             ACTION: Negotiating Curve       EVENT: Embankment                 LOC:                         CONTRB: ,Other Vehicle Defect
                                                                                                                                        Related
                                                                                                                                                                          Insurance, failure to
  DR1-AGE: 20 M                               RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: None                     EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT: provide proof - 49-
                                                                                                                                                                          1232
View
              View Detail Report
Image
                                                    Jefferson                                     SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND:                  LANE: 50                                001360                MILEPOST:4.9830                        5/8/2006 14:30
                                                    Ave                                              CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                                 OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       06C136169                          06-P09131       LIGHT: Day                     WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                     COND:
                                                                                                           Property Dmg                     Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                           Report                           Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: S              ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                                                                                                 Turning violations -
  DR1-AGE: 20 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                                 49-644
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Head-On Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 36 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                    Jefferson                                     SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd                    AND:                  LANE: 51                                001360                MILEPOST:4.9830                       12/20/2005 12:50
                                                    Ave                                              CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                                 OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C123730                          05-P28160       LIGHT: Day                     WEATHER: Cloudy                 WET/DRY: Wet                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                     COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                   Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                             Report                         Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Turning Left               EVENT: Angle Turning              LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                           Non-Activated Air                                                     Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 45 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                           Bag- Belts In Use                                                     turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Angle Turning              LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                                                               Insurance, failure to
                                                                                                             Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 29 F                              RES: Utah           INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV:                          EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT: provide proof - 49-
                                                                                                             Bag- Belts In Use
                                                                                                                                                                               1232
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd       LANE: 50                                003250                MILEPOST:1.0000                       11/22/2005 18:02
                                                                                                     CODE:
                                           LOCAL                           Dark, Street Lights                                                                   OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C120316                          05-P26270       LIGHT:                         WEATHER: Clear                  WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                          On                                                                                         COND:
                                                                                                             Property Dmg                   Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 3                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                      SEVERITY:                        AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                             Report                         Dept                   RELATED:
                                                                                                                                                                             ,Improper Lane
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Changing Lanes             EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                                                             Change
                                                                                                                                                                             Moving violation - 49-
  DR1-AGE: 50 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                  CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                             603
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight             EVENT: Side Swipe Same            LOC: Nonjunction               CONTRB:
  DR1-AGE: 29 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
        V3:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: W              ACTION: Stopped In Traffic         EVENT: Head On                    LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
  DR1-AGE: 24 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident            PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap         EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 00                             003250               MILEPOST:1.0470                        10/5/2005 15:31
                                                                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                             OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C115799                          05-P22706      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Cloudy                WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                 COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 1                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                       AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                         Report                       Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V1:    Tractor 1 Trailer             DIR: N             ACTION: Turning Right           EVENT: Other Fixed Object        LOC:                            CONTRB: Other
                                                                                                                                      Related
   DR1-AGE: 22 M                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                           N REF.                                             SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd                          Alameda Rd      LANE: 50                             003250               MILEPOST:1.0660                        9/30/2005 15:28
                                         STREET:                                                 CODE:
                                          LOCAL                                                                                                              OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C115386                          05-P22339      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                           CODE:                                                                                                                  COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                       AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                         Report                       Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V1:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Changing Lanes          EVENT: Side Swipe Same           LOC:                            CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                      Related
                                                                                                                                                                             Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 65 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                             - 49-638
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: N             ACTION: Slowing In Traffic      EVENT: Side Swipe Same           LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                        Related
   DR1-AGE: 34 M                             RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                              SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd      LANE: 51                             003250               MILEPOST:1.0000                        8/29/2005 17:53
                                                                                                 CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                             OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C113105                          05-P19630      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                 WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                 COND:
                                                                                                         Property Dmg                   Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0            INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                       AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                         Report                         Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W             ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning             LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                       Non-Activated Air                                                     Stop/yield sign
  DR1-AGE: 22 F                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                       Bag- Belts In Use                                                     violations - 49-807
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N             ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle Turning             LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                       Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 20 M                              RES: Idaho         INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                         EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                       Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image
                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Jefferson Ave                 AND: Alameda Rd       LANE: 51                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0000                       8/24/2005 17:08
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C111925                          05-P19161       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                          Report                       Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Failed To Yield
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air                                                   Failure to yield, left
  DR1-AGE: 56 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use                                                   turn - 49-641
        V2:    Car                           DIR: N              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 20 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                    Pocatello                                  SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd                     AND:                  LANE: 50                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0660                        8/6/2005 19:30
                                                    Creek Rd                                      CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C110505                          05-P17591       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                 Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                          Report                       Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Disregarded Signal
                                                                                                                                                                            Signaling violations -
  DR1-AGE: 75 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                            49-808
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV          DIR: S              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 30 M                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Pocatello Creek Rd            AND: Hiline Rd        LANE: 51                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9830                       6/19/2005 17:43
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                           LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C106428                          05-P13193       LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                               None
                                            CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                                                       Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 1                   SEVERITY: B Injury Accident    AGENCY:                                   Y
                                                                                                                                       Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                           DIR: W              ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection          CONTRB: Disregarded Signal
  DR1-AGE: 69 F                              RES: Idaho          INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                    CIT:
        V2:    Motorcycle                    DIR: S              ACTION: Turning Left            EVENT: Angle Turning            LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                      Thrown From
  DR1-AGE: 52 M                              RES: Utah           INJURY: Non-Incapacitating   PROT-DEV: Helmet Used            EJECT:                                CIT:
                                                                                                                                      Cycle/Animal
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Hiline Rd                     AND: Alameda Rd       LANE: 50                             003250              MILEPOST:1.0470                       6/10/2005 15:01
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                            LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C105885                           05-P012440     LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                             CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                  Pocatello Police   INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                          Report                        Dept                   RELATED:
        V1:    Car                             DIR: S            ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection           CONTRB: ,Disregarded Signal
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 78 F                                RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
        V2:    Car                             DIR: E            ACTION: Going Straight          EVENT: Angle                    LOC: In Intersection            CONTRB:
                                                                                                        Non-Activated Air
  DR1-AGE: 71 M                                RES: Maryland     INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV:                        EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                        Bag- Belts In Use
View
              View Detail Report
Image



                                                                                               SEGMENT
ON:            Alameda Rd             REF. STREET: Hiline Rd       LANE: 52                             001360              MILEPOST:4.9830                        3/26/2005 15:25
                                                                                                  CODE:
                                            LOCAL                                                                                                            OTHER SURF
 SERIAL:       05C099274                           05-P06202      LIGHT: Day                  WEATHER: Clear                WET/DRY: Dry                                None
                                             CODE:                                                                                                                COND:
                                                                                                          Property Dmg                Pocatello Police     INTERSECTION
        UNITS: 2                      FATALITIES: 0             INJURIES: 0                   SEVERITY:                      AGENCY:                                    Y
                                                                                                          Report                      Dept                     RELATED:
                                                                                                                                      Intersection
        V1:    Car                             DIR: E            ACTION: Slowing In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                            CONTRB: Following Too Close
                                                                                                                                      Related
                                                                                                                                                                             Following too closely
  DR1-AGE: 54 M                                RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
                                                                                                                                                                             - 49-638
                                                                                                                                        Intersection
        V2:    Pickup/Van/Panel/SUV            DIR: E            ACTION: Stopped In Traffic      EVENT: Rear End                 LOC:                            CONTRB:
                                                                                                                                        Related
   DR1-AGE: 49 F                               RES: Idaho        INJURY: None Evident         PROT-DEV: Shoulder And Lap       EJECT: Not Ejected                     CIT:
View
           View Detail Report
Image
APPENDIX E ­ BTPO LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS
                          VARIABLE APPROACH
                                           Level of Service Standards
                                              Variable approach
Bannock Transportation Planning Organization recognizes that the Level of Service (LOS) is an important
performance measure in determining the needs for the community. Focus groups on the appropriate
LOS measure for the region were held in January 2010. The results of these groups would suggest that
the LOS should be moved from LOS C to LOS D or even LOS E. The Policy Board and Technical Advisory
Committees had concern with a wholesale change to a lower level of service. Instead they are
recommending a tiered approach where the LOS Standard is variable depending upon the design of the
roadway. This is consistent with the comments from the focus groups. All focus groups thought that
improving alternate routes to assist in removing vehicles from congested routes is a good idea. In
having the variable standard improvements to these alternative routes could be identified and plan
before the routes reaches LOS D or E, thereby preserving is ability to handle additional vehicles.

The variable in the standard segments and intersections would be allowed to operate at LOS D and LOS
E if specific criteria exist. This tiered approach is designed to make improvements where they can affect
the LOS while recognizing the some street segments and intersections are at their design maximum.
For these sections and intersection corridor plans should be developed to determine the needed
improvements for the corridor.

In 2006 a Master Street Plan was completed which identified the Right-of-Way (ROW) and the typical
design for Major Arterial, Arterials, and Collectors. Using this report as a guide, segments which are at
the design guidelines for number of through lanes, turn lanes, and median treatment will be identified
as having a LOS D. To have some consistency entire segments between other collectors and arterials
will have the same LOS. The congestion standard for interstates is LOS D. Intersections which have not
only right but left turn bays are designated LOS E. Figure 1 identified the LOS standards. Figure 2 shows
the LOS by segments and intersections.

                    ·Major Arterial with less than 2 travel lanes in each direction
                    ·Major Arterial or Arterials without center turn lane
                    ·Collectors
    LOS C           ·Intersections


                    ·Arterials that meets design standards
                    ·Interstates
                    ·Intersections with left turn bays
   LOS D:           ·One-way Arterials



                    ·Intersections with left and right turn pockets
                    ·Intersection which are in a coordinated system
    LOS E

Figure 1: Level of Service Standards
Figure 2: Level of Service by Segment and Intersection
                   APPENDIX C
Initial Intersection Design Layouts
APPENDIX D
 Alternative 8
APPENDIX E
Phasing Plans
          APPENDIX F
BTPO Master Bicycle Plan
                                                                      Tyhee




                                                                                                                    Yellowstone
                                                                                       Hawthorne




                                                                                                                                                           Hiline
                                                                              Siphon
              Rio Vista




                                                                                                                                                      Hi-Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chubbuck




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bench
                                             Philbin




Batiste                               I-86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                mpu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Oly
                                                                                                                                                                    Flandro
                          <                                                                        Quinn




                                                                                                                        Poleline
                              =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <
                                                                                                                         Poleline Rd



                                                       US                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                          H                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pocatello Creeek Satterfiel
                                                              wy
                                                                 30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              te
                                                                                                   Alameda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                llo
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jefferson




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pocat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ello
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Creek


                                                                                       =
                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                              ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Parks
                                                                                                                 re
                                                                                                                   tt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Oak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Clark

                                                                                                       <




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ksk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Buc
                                                                                                             =
                                                                                                                                                                        Pocatello

                                                                                                                                                                                    8t
                                                                                                                                                                                      h




                                                                                                                                           ld
                                                                                                                                        ou
                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15th




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      orial




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Terry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lu
                                                                                                                                                                                    1s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tin
                                                                                                                                                                                      t




                                                                                                                                                                                       r                                rte
                                                                                                                                                                                 nte                                  Ca         ar
                                                                                                                                                                               Ce                                               M

                                                                                                                                                                              wis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <
                                                                                                                                                                     Le                        on
                                                                                                                                                                                             nt
                                                                                                                                                                                           Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-15




                                                                                                                                                                                    =         Arthur


                                                                                                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  h




                                                                                                                                                City Creek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ain




                                                                                                                                                Trailhead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ==                                      <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bannock Hwy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       =




                                        Public Land
                                      Public Land
                                  Greenway System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              k




                                      Class I Trail
                                      Class II Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Portnue




                                      Canal Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I- 15 Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               f




                                      On Street Connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sines




                                      Planned Class I Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GIbson Jack                                                                                                                                        Cr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rtn
                                      Planned Class II Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mine




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        k                                     eu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Trailhead                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ll




                                             Bike Paths
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fort Ha




                                      Bike Lane
                                      Bike Route
                                      Proposed Bike Lane
                                      Proposed Bike Route
                                      Shared Lane
                                      Other
          0                       1                                             2                                                       3
                                                       Miles
                      APPENDIX G
Compiled Public Involvement Comments
    APPENDIX H
Stakeholder Letters
September 14, 2010

Greg Lanning, Public Works Director
City of Pocatello
Public Works Department
911 N. 7th Avenue
Pocatello, ID 83201

Dear Mr. Lanning,

Thank you for your time and presentation at our Trustee Work Session regarding the proposed project
improvements to the Jefferson Ave - Alameda Road area effecting Tendoy Elementary School. We understand
this anticipated project may be a number of years into the future before it would be approved or completed.

In reviewing the three options which were presented, we believe the option Alternative 10, where a cul-de-sac is
designed into the plan offers the greatest benefit to Tendoy Elementary. Specifically, thru-traffic would be
eliminated directly in front of the school, student safety would increase due to the school being sheltered from
everyday traffic not destined for Tendoy Elementary, and the District would be compensated for loss of frontage
playground on Jefferson Ave by additional property reclaimed by removal of the apartment complex south of the
school.

Additionally, the new Alameda Stake Center parking to the west of the LDS church could provide parking for
school activities if the District were to maintain its current agreement with the church. We express our concern
that it is important to the District to continue to work cooperatively with the Alameda Stake Center and the LDS
Church in maintaining our parking agreements. Without such agreements in place for additional parking, the
impact to the surrounding Tendoy neighborhood would be significantly impacted.

We would request the City of Pocatello keep us informed in relation to the plan, design and time line of the
identified project. If we can be of assistance or need to be involved to a greater extent, we will make ourselves
available.

We appreciate the open and outstanding working relationship we have with the City of Pocatello in the past, and
hopefully in the future improvements to our schools and community, and thank you for briefing the Board of
Trustees on this planned improvement.

Sincerely,




Mary M. Vagner
Superintendent

cc. Jesse Schuerman
    Dierdre Castillo
    Board of Trustees
    Bart Reed
    Patti Mortensen
    Janet Nelson
       APPENDIX I
Proposed Alternatives
  APPENDIX J
Evaluation Matrix
                                                                                 Evaluation Matrix - Alameda & Jefferson Intersection Improvement
                                               Land Use                                                                Transportation                                        Cost                  Public Involvement                                          Safety
                           Criterion 1 -      Criterion 2 -  Criterion 3 - School Criterion 4 -     Criterion 1 -        Criterion 2 -    Criterion 3 - Traffic   Criterion 1 -    Criterion 2 -   Criterion 1 - Stakeholder          Criterion 1 -       Criterion 2 -     Criterion 3 -
                            Residential      Commercial & & Church Property Total Right-           Safety (access      Improves Traffic     Operations for        Major Utility    Total Cost      and General Public Input            Possible         Improvements to   Improvements to
                         Property Impacts      Industrial          Impacts          of-Way            points)            Operations              School           Relocations       (Range -                                          Reduction in        Crosswalks    Pedestrian and Bicycle
                                            Property Impacts                        (ROW)                                                                                           Millions)                                          Accidents                                 Use
                                                                                   Required


Alternatives                #      Acres      #      Acres       #       Acres        Acres




No-Build                             0                 0                   0            0




Alternative 1A             18      0.648     18      1.600       2       0.960       3.208                                                                        $200,000         $5.2 - $6.3           17.5% In Favor




Alternative 1C             12      0.409     14      *2.863      2       0.186       3.458                                                                        $200,000         $5.4 -$6.6             25% In Favor




Alternative 10             18      0.829      7      *2.142      2       1.207       4.173                                                                        $100,000         $5.8 - $7.2            30% In Favor



                                                   Low                               0 - 0.25                              Low                    1-2               Low             No Cost            Stakeholder and Public          Estimated                              50% - 100%
                            Residential                                                             Access Points
                                                  Medium                            0.26 - 1.0                            Medium                  4-6              Medium         Lower Range        Preference (% of comments        Reduction in                             20% - 50%
                          Impacts (acres)                                                              Open
                                                                                                                                                                                                              received)                Accidents
                                                   High                                1.0+                                High                    7+               High            Highest                                                                                    0% - 20%

                            Industrial &           Low                                0 - 0.5                                                    A-C
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Received the Highest Amount of      Reduction in                       Considerable Change
                                                                                                   Level of Service
 Explanation of "low,       Commercial            Medium                            0.55 - 1.0         (LOS)                                       D                                                           Votes                Cross-walk Length                        Minor Change
   medium, high"          Impacts (acres)                                                                                                                                                                                             and Locations
                                                   High                                1.0+                                                        E+                                                                                                                         No Change
  impacts for each
      criterion.                                   Low                                0 - 0.5      Vehicular Traffic                      Bus Drop/Pickup only
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Received the Second Highest      Pedestrian &                       Considerable Improvement
                          School & Church
                          Impacts (acres)         Medium                            0.55 - 1.0       mixed with                             Parent Drop Off                                               Amount of Votes              Bicycle                             Minor Improvement
                                                                                                      Children                                                                                                                         Friendly
                                                   High                                1.0+                                                  Pass by Traffic                                                                                                                No improvement


                                                                                                                                                                                                   Received the Least Amount of
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Votes




* Includes undeveloped Commercial Property Between Jefferson Avenue & LDS Church as Complete Purchase
                                                   APPENDIX K
ITD Form 758, ITD Form 1150, Construction Costs, and ITD Form 2839
                                     for each Proposed Alternative
                      Alternative 1A
ITD Form 758 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 758 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Initial Build Option
Initial and Ultimate Build Construction Cost Breakdown
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)               Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                  Project Number
11657                       A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Initial Construction to Alternative 1A
This project will consist of constructing a by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that will extend to
the north and connect into Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello
Creek Road by constructing a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road
will be closed with an offset cul-de-sac constructed near the intersection. The Winco parking lot will be modified with
curb & gutter with sidewalk to designate a new entrance. The existing entrance will be removed by constructing a
curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance.
Total Construction will range between $1,351,500 and $1,651,900, which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $882,000 and $ 1,078,000, which includes three residential homes having to
be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 15 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $2,368,500 and $2,895,000, which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                     Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)              Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                  Project Number
11657                       A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Ultimate Construction to Alternate 1A
This project will consist of reconstructing the signalized intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd/Hiline Rd/Alameda
Rd/Jefferson Ave which will include reconfiguring lane use for each approach. This project will also consist of
constructing a by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that will extend to the north and connect into
Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello Creek Road by constructing
a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road will be closed with an offset
cul-de-sac constructed near the intersection. The Winco parking lot will be modified with curb & gutter with sidewalk
to designate a new entrance. The existing entrance will be removed by constructing a curb & gutter with sidewalk
the length of the existing entrance.
Total Construction will range between $3,184,300 and $3,892,000, which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $1,686,600 and $2,061,400, which includes four residential homes and one
commercial business having to be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 38 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $5,189,500 and $6,342,800, which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                     Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                             Project Number                                                         Key Number

                                 A011(657)                                                              11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                     Begin Mile Post                   End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                             4.983                             4.3983

Alternative 1A - Initial Build                                                        Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $150,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 15                    Number of Relocations 3                           $980,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $331,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $91,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $378,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $135,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $10,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $192,700
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $1,137,700
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $114,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $250,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $1,501,700
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $2,631,700
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                          Project Number                                                            Key Number

                              A011(657)                                                                 11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                  Begin Mile Post                      End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                          4.983                                4.3983

Alternative 1A - Ultimate Build                                                       Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $354,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 38                    Number of Relocations 5                           $1,874,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others                         $200,000
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $615,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $186,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $971,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $335,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $34,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $339,100
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $2,680,100
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $268,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $590,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $3,538,100
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $5,766,100
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 1A-Int)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      15              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            3

New Alignment:                                            0.20 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                                         68.00 ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Residential           Developed                0.68    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =            $147,460
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 0.93    acres @         $392,042          /acre              =            $364,991
                                 Undeveloped              0.15    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =             $78,461
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 3      @            $100,000          (average)          =            $300,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                       $890,912
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                       $89,091
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                    $980,003
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                     Date:           10/5/2010
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 1A-Ult.)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      38              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            5

New Alignment:                                            0.60 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                            68 - 100               ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Residential           Developed                0.65    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =            $141,100
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 2.39    acres @         $366,046          /acre              =            $874,850
                                 Undeveloped              0.17    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =             $88,079
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 3      @            $100,000          (average)          =            $300,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 2      @            $150,000          (average)          =            $300,000
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                     $1,704,029
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                     $170,403
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                  $1,874,432
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                     Date:           10/5/2010
                                                            Alameda/Jefferson
                                                              City of Pocatello
                                                                Alternate 1A
                                                         Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                                  10/6/2010




Summary Of Costs                                               Initial       Ultimate
 Earthwork/Removal                                          $331,000          $614,600
 Pavement/Base                                              $377,600          $971,000
 Drainage                                                     $91,200         $186,200
 Erosion Control                                              $18,700          $37,490
 Concrete                                                   $174,000          $339,100
 Traffic                                                    $135,000          $335,000
 Construction Traffic Control                                 $10,100          $34,390
Construction Subtotal                                      $1,137,600       $2,517,780




                                           Initial Construction

           Item #                               Item                     Quantity        UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                                          Earthwork/Removal
203-005A                        Rem of Obstructions                          1            LS     $10,000.00    $10,000.00
203-015A                        Rem of Bituminous Surf                     8000           SY          $2.50    $20,000.00
203-060A                        Rem of Conc Sidewalk                       1200           SY          $6.00     $7,200.00
203-070A                        Rem of Curb & Gutter                        1400          FT          $4.50     $6,300.00
205-005A                        Excavation                                 13100          CY         $15.00   $196,500.00
S203-05A                        Demolition                                    1           LS     $90,000.00    $90,000.00
S203-45A                        Rem of Existing Signs                        10          EACH       $100.00     $1,000.00
                                                                                                   Subtotal   $331,000.00

                                                            Pavement/Base
303-021A                        3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                     5300         TON        $22.00    $116,600.00
301-005A                        Granular Subbase                            4250         TON        $13.00     $55,250.00
S405-20A                        Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                    2250         TON        $90.00    $202,500.00
S405-41A                        Approach                                      5          EACH      $650.00      $3,250.00
                                                                                                  Subtotal    $377,600.00

                                                                Drainage
605-500A                        Catch Basin                                  15          EACH     $1,300.00    $19,500.00
605-600A                        Inlet                                        15          EACH     $2,101.00    $31,515.00
605-025A                        12" Storm Sewer Pipe                        950           FT         $36.00    $34,200.00
605-450A                        Manhole                                       3          EACH     $2,000.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                                   Subtotal    $91,215.00

                                                            Erosion Control
205-060A                        Water for Dust Abatement                     20           MG         $34.00       $680.00
212-095A                        Inlet Protection                             10          EACH        $11.50       $115.00
212-020A                        Silt Fence                                  1500          FT          $4.50     $6,750.00
212-060A                        Stabilized Construction Entrance              2          EACH     $2,600.00     $5,200.00
S212-05A                        Fiber Wattles                               1500          FT          $4.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                                   Subtotal    $18,745.00

                                                                Concrete
613-005A                        Conc Sidewalk                               2600          SY        $27.00     $70,200.00
614-005A                        Urban Approaches                             10          EACH      $800.00      $8,000.00
614-010A                        Conc For Urban Approaches                    40           CY       $200.00      $8,000.00
615-430A                        Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2               4400          FT        $20.00     $88,000.00
                                                                                                  Subtotal    $174,200.00
                                      Alameda/Jefferson
                                        City of Pocatello
                                          Alternate 1A
                                   Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                            10/6/2010


                                             Traffic
616-010A   Sign Type B                                 200      SF         $18.00     $3,600.00
656-005A   Traffic Signal installation                  1       LS    $120,000.00   $120,000.00
S900-60A   Pavement Markings                           4000     FT          $0.25     $1,000.00
S900-62A   Pav Marking Thermoplastic                   1000     SF         $10.00    $10,000.00
                                                                         Subtotal   $134,600.00

                               Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B                    200      SF         $7.00      $1,400.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III               5     EACH       $80.00        $400.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                           30     EACH       $25.00        $750.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance                  100     MNHR       $42.00      $4,200.00
630-005A   Flagging                                     80      HR        $37.00      $2,960.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers                50     EACH        $8.50        $425.00
                                                                         Subtotal    $10,135.00
                                              Alameda/Jefferson
                                                  Alternate 1A
                                                City of Pocatello
                                           Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                    10/6/2010



                                     Ultimate Construction

           Item #                Item                    Quantity      UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                           Earthwork/Removal
203-005A            Rem of Obstructions                         1       LS     $20,000.00    $20,000.00
203-015A            Rem of Bituminous Surf                   23250      SY          $2.50    $58,125.00
203-060A            Rem of Conc Sidewalk                      3700      SY          $6.00    $22,200.00
203-070A            Rem of Curb & Gutter                      4500      FT          $4.50    $20,250.00
205-005A            Excavation                               26800      CY         $15.00   $402,000.00
S203-05A            Demolition                                 1        LS     $90,000.00    $90,000.00
S203-45A            Rem of Existing Signs                      20      EACH       $100.00     $2,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $614,575.00

                                             Pavement/Base
303-021A            3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                  13650     TON         $22.00   $300,300.00
301-005A            Granular Subbase                         5350      TON         $13.00    $69,550.00
S405-20A            Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                 6600      TON         $90.00   $594,000.00
S405-41A            Approach                                   11      EACH       $650.00     $7,150.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $971,000.00

                                                  Drainage
605-500A            Catch Basin                               23       EACH     $1,300.00    $29,900.00
605-600A            Inlet                                     23       EACH     $2,101.00    $48,323.00
605-025A            12" Storm Sewer Pipe                     2500       FT         $36.00    $90,000.00
605-450A            Manhole                                    9       EACH     $2,000.00    $18,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $186,223.00

                                             Erosion Control
205-060A            Water for Dust Abatement                  40        MG         $34.00     $1,360.00
212-095A            Inlet Protection                          20       EACH        $11.50       $230.00
212-020A            Silt Fence                               3000       FT          $4.50    $13,500.00
212-060A            Stabilized Construction Entrance           4       EACH     $2,600.00    $10,400.00
S212-05A            Fiber Wattles                            3000       FT          $4.00    $12,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal    $37,490.00

                                                  Concrete
613-005A            Conc Sidewalk                            5150       d1         $27.00   $139,050.00
614-005A            Urban Approaches                          20       EACH       $800.00    $16,000.00
614-010A            Conc For Urban Approaches                 80        CY        $200.00    $16,000.00
615-430A            Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2            8400       FT         $20.00   $168,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $339,050.00

                                                   Traffic
616-010A            Sign Type B                               400       SF         $18.00     $7,200.00
656-005A            Traffic Signal installation                1        LS    $295,000.00   $295,000.00
S900-60A            Pavement Markings                        11000      FT          $0.25     $2,750.00
S900-62A            Pav Marking Thermoplastic                3000       SF         $10.00    $30,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $334,950.00
                                     Alameda/Jefferson
                                         Alternate 1A
                                       City of Pocatello
                                  Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                           10/6/2010



                            Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B               400          SF      $7.00     $2,800.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III         10         EACH    $80.00       $800.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                      60         EACH    $25.00     $1,500.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance             400         MNHR    $42.00    $16,800.00
630-005A   Flagging                               280          HR     $37.00    $10,360.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers          250         EACH     $8.50     $2,125.00
                                                                     Subtotal   $34,385.00
                      Alternative 1C
ITD Form 758 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 758 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Initial Build Option
Initial and Ultimate Build Construction Cost Breakdown
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)              Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                  Project Number
11657                       A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Initial Construction to Alternate 1C
This project will consist of constructing a frontage road that will originate from Alameda Road by Tendoy Elementary
School and continue west and circle around the LDS Church property and then head east Deon Drive then head
north connecting into Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello Creek
Road by constructing a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road will be
closed off from Jefferson Avenue by constructing a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing
entrance. The Winco parking lot will be modified with curb & gutter with sidewalk to designate a new entrance. The
existing entrance will be removed by constructing a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing
entrance.
Right-of-way acquisition will be required with two homes required to be relocated.
Total Construction will range between $1,311,000 and $1,602,400, which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $1,042,200 and $1,273,800, which includes two residential homes having to
be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 10 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $2,483,700 and $3,035,700, which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                     Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)              Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                 Project Number
11657                      A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Ultimate Construction to Alternate 1C
The project will consist of reconstructing the signalized intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd/Hiline Rd/Alameda
Rd/Jefferson Ave which will include reconfiguring lane use for each approach. This project will also consist of
constructing a frontage road that will originate from Alameda Road by Tendoy Elementary School and continue west
and circle around the LDS Church property and then head east Deon Drive then head north connecting into
Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello Creek Road by constructing
a curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road will be closed off from Jefferson
Avenue by constructing a curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. The Winco parking lot will
be modified with curb & gutter with sidewalk to designate a new entrance. The existing entrance will be removed by
constructing a curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance.
Total Construction will range between $3,186,800 and $3,895,000 which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $1,904,400 and $2,327,600 which includes two residential homes and two
commercial businesses having to be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 28 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $5,409,800 and $6,612,000 which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                    Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                             Project Number                                                         Key Number

                                 A011(657)                                                              11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                     Begin Mile Post                   End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                             4.983                             4.3983

Alternative 1C - Initial Build                                                        Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $145,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 10                    Number of Relocations 2                           $1,158,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $303,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $111,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $357,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $136,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $10,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $186,700
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $1,103,700
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $110,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $243,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $1,456,700
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $2,759,700
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                          Project Number                                                            Key Number

                              A011(657)                                                                 11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                  Begin Mile Post                      End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                          4.983                                4.3983

Alternative 1C - Ultimate Build                                                       Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $354,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 28                    Number of Relocations 4                           $2,116,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others                         $200,000
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $587,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $206,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $950,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $336,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $34,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $369,890
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $2,682,890
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $268,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $590,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $3,540,890
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $6,010,890
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 1C-Int.)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      10              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            2

New Alignment:                                            0.60 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                            68 - 100               ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Residential           Developed                0.40    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =             $87,278
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 0.21    acres @         $366,046          /acre              =             $77,602
                                 Undeveloped              1.32    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =            $688,165
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 2      @            $100,000          (average)          =            $200,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                     $1,053,045
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                     $105,304
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                  $1,158,349
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                      Date:          10/5/2010
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 1C-Ult.)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      28              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            4

New Alignment:                                            0.60 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                            68 - 100               ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Residential           Developed                0.41    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =             $89,125
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 1.63    acres @         $366,046          /acre              =            $597,643
                                 Undeveloped              1.41    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =            $737,039
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 2      @            $100,000          (average)          =            $200,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 2      @            $150,000          (average)          =            $300,000
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                     $1,923,808
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                     $192,381
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                  $2,116,189
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                     Date:           10/5/2010
                                   Alameda/Jefferson
                                     City of Pocatello
                                       Alternate 1C
                                Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                         10/6/2010




Summary Of Costs                    Initial      Ultimate
 Earthwork/Removal                $303,100        $586,700
 Pavement/Base                    $356,800        $950,200
 Drainage                         $111,000        $206,000
 Erosion Control                   $18,700         $37,490
 Concrete                         $168,000        $332,400
 Traffic                          $136,000        $336,000
 Construction Traffic Control      $10,100         $34,390
Construction Subtotal           $1,103,700      $2,483,180
                                              Alameda/Jefferson
                                                City of Pocatello
                                                  Alternate 1C
                                           Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                    10/6/2010



                             Initial Construction

           Item #                 Item                   Quantity      UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                           Earthwork/Removal
203-005A            Rem of Obstructions                        1        LS     $10,000.00    $10,000.00
203-015A            Rem of Bituminous Surf                   13700      SY          $2.50    $34,250.00
203-060A            Rem of Conc Sidewalk                      1350      SY          $6.00     $8,100.00
203-070A            Rem of Curb & Gutter                      3000      FT          $4.50    $13,500.00
205-005A            Excavation                               11750      CY         $15.00   $176,250.00
S203-05A            Demolition                                 1        LS     $60,000.00    $60,000.00
S203-45A            Rem of Existing Signs                      10      EACH       $100.00     $1,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $303,100.00

                                             Pavement/Base
303-021A            3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                  5000      TON         $22.00   $110,000.00
301-005A            Granular Subbase                         4000      TON         $13.00    $52,000.00
S405-20A            Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                 2150      TON         $90.00   $193,500.00
S405-41A            Approach                                   2       EACH       $650.00     $1,300.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $356,800.00

                                                  Drainage
605-500A            Catch Basin                               15       EACH     $1,300.00    $19,500.00
605-600A            Inlet                                     15       EACH     $2,101.00    $31,515.00
605-025A            12" Storm Sewer Pipe                     1500       FT         $36.00    $54,000.00
605-450A            Manhole                                   3        EACH     $2,000.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $111,015.00

                                             Erosion Control
205-060A            Water for Dust Abatement                  20        MG         $34.00       $680.00
212-095A            Inlet Protection                          10       EACH        $11.50       $115.00
212-020A            Silt Fence                               1500       FT          $4.50     $6,750.00
212-060A            Stabilized Construction Entrance           2       EACH     $2,600.00     $5,200.00
S212-05A            Fiber Wattles                            1500       FT          $4.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal    $18,745.00

                                                  Concrete
613-005A            Conc Sidewalk                            2500       SY         $27.00    $67,500.00
614-005A            Urban Approaches                          10       EACH       $800.00     $8,000.00
614-010A            Conc For Urban Approaches                 40        CY        $200.00     $8,000.00
615-430A            Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2            4200       FT         $20.00    $84,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $167,500.00

                                                   Traffic
616-010A            Sign Type B                              200        SF         $18.00     $3,600.00
656-005A            Traffic Signal installation               1         LS    $120,000.00   $120,000.00
S900-60A            Pavement Markings                        8000       FT          $0.25     $2,000.00
S900-62A            Pav Marking Thermoplastic                1000       SF         $10.00    $10,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $135,600.00
                                     Alameda/Jefferson
                                       City of Pocatello
                                         Alternate 1C
                                  Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                           10/6/2010



                             Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B                200         SF      $7.00     $1,400.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III          5         EACH    $80.00       $400.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                      30         EACH    $25.00       $750.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance              100        MNHR    $42.00     $4,200.00
630-005A   Flagging                                 80         HR     $37.00     $2,960.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers           50         EACH     $8.50       $425.00
                                                                     Subtotal   $10,135.00
                                              Alameda/Jefferson
                                                  Alternate 1C
                                                City of Pocatello
                                           Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                    10/6/2010
                                      Ultimate Construction

           Item #                 Item                   Quantity      UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                           Earthwork/Removal
203-005A            Rem of Obstructions                        1        LS     $20,000.00    $20,000.00
203-015A            Rem of Bituminous Surf                   28950      SY          $2.50    $72,375.00
203-060A            Rem of Conc Sidewalk                      3850      SY          $6.00    $23,100.00
203-070A            Rem of Curb & Gutter                      6100      FT          $4.50    $27,450.00
205-005A            Excavation                               25450      CY         $15.00   $381,750.00
S203-05A            Demolition                                  1       LS     $60,000.00    $60,000.00
S203-45A            Rem of Existing Signs                      20      EACH       $100.00     $2,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $586,675.00

                                             Pavement/Base
303-021A            3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                  13350     TON         $22.00   $293,700.00
301-005A            Granular Subbase                         5100      TON         $13.00    $66,300.00
S405-20A            Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                 6500      TON         $90.00   $585,000.00
S405-41A            Approach                                   8       EACH       $650.00     $5,200.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $950,200.00

                                                  Drainage
605-500A            Catch Basin                               23       EACH     $1,300.00    $29,900.00
605-600A            Inlet                                     23       EACH     $2,101.00    $48,323.00
605-025A            12" Storm Sewer Pipe                     3050       FT         $36.00   $109,800.00
605-450A            Manhole                                   9        EACH     $2,000.00    $18,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $206,023.00

                                             Erosion Control
205-060A            Water for Dust Abatement                  40        MG         $34.00     $1,360.00
212-095A            Inlet Protection                          20       EACH        $11.50       $230.00
212-020A            Silt Fence                               3000       FT          $4.50    $13,500.00
212-060A            Stabilized Construction Entrance           4       EACH     $2,600.00    $10,400.00
S212-05A            Fiber Wattles                            3000       FT          $4.00    $12,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal    $37,490.00

                                                  Concrete
613-005A            Conc Sidewalk                            5050       d1         $27.00   $136,350.00
614-005A            Urban Approaches                          20       EACH       $800.00    $16,000.00
614-010A            Conc For Urban Approaches                 80        CY        $200.00    $16,000.00
615-430A            Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2            8200       FT         $20.00   $164,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $332,350.00

                                                   Traffic
616-010A            Sign Type B                               400       SF         $18.00     $7,200.00
656-005A            Traffic Signal installation                1        LS    $295,000.00   $295,000.00
S900-60A            Pavement Markings                        15000      FT          $0.25     $3,750.00
S900-62A            Pav Marking Thermoplastic                3000       SF         $10.00    $30,000.00
                                                                                 Subtotal   $335,950.00
                                     Alameda/Jefferson
                                         Alternate 1C
                                       City of Pocatello
                                  Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                           10/6/2010



                             Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B               400          SF      $7.00     $2,800.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III         10         EACH    $80.00       $800.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                      60         EACH    $25.00     $1,500.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance             400         MNHR    $42.00    $16,800.00
630-005A   Flagging                               280          HR     $37.00    $10,360.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers          250         EACH     $8.50     $2,125.00
                                                                     Subtotal   $34,385.00
                      Alternative 10
ITD Form 758 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 758 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 1150 ­ Initial Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Ultimate Build Option
ITD Form 2839 ­ Initial Build Option
Initial and Ultimate Build Construction Cost Breakdown
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)               Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                  Project Number
11657                       A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Initial Construction to Alternative 10
This project will consist of constructing a by-pass route between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that will extend to
the north and connect into Pocatello Creek Road with a traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello
Creek Road by constructing a new curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road
will be closed with an offset cul-de-sac constructed near the intersection. The Winco parking lot will be modified with
curb & gutter with sidewalk to designate a new entrance. The existing entrance will be removed by constructing a
curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the existing entrance.
Total Construction will range between $1,351,500 and $1,651,900, which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $882,000 and $ 1,078,000, which includes three residential homes having to
be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 15 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $2,368,500 and $2,895,000, which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                     Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 0758 (Rev. 2-08)               Alternate Solutions And Costs
itd.idaho.gov


Various options and cost comparisons should be analyzed. If appropriate, equivalent uniform annual cost
should be computed for the expected life of the proposed options.
Key Number                  Project Number
11657                       A011(657)
Location
Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello

Description: Ultimate Construction to Alternative 10
This project will consist of reconstructing the intersection of Pocatello Creek Rd/Hiline Rd/Alameda Rd/Jefferson
Avenue and reconfiguring all four approaches so that the intersection is square. The intersection will shift slightly to
the east with Pocatello Creek Road, Hiline Road, and Jefferson Avenue having `S' curves constructed in the
approaches to allow the intersection to be squared up. This project will also consist of constructing a by-pass route
between Alameda Road and Deon Drive that will extend to the north and connect into Pocatello Creek Road with a
traffic signal. Deon Drive will be closed off from Pocatello Creek Road by constructing a new curb & gutter with
sidewalk the length of the existing entrance. Alameda Road will be closed with an offset cul-de-sac constructed near
the intersection. The Winco parking lot will be modified with curb & gutter with sidewalk to designate a new
entrance. The existing entrance will be removed by constructing a curb & gutter with sidewalk the length of the
existing entrance.
Total Construction will range between $3,394,500 and $4,149,000, which includes mobilization at 10% and
Construction Engineer and Contingencies at 20%.
Total Right-of-Way will range between $2,149,200 and $ 2,626,800, which includes four residential homes and one
commercial business having to be relocated. Right-of-way will impact 27 parcels.
Total project cost will range between $5,883,000 and $7,190,500, which includes preliminary engineering costs at
10% of total construction cost.




                                                      Page 1 of 2
 Proposed Design Exceptions
  Describe and Justify All Design Exceptions:




  District Engineer Approval/Recommended                                      Date


  Design Exception Committee Approval                  Title


  FHWA Approval (Required for NHS)                     Design Exception No.   Date



ITD 0758, Alternate Solutions and Costs (2-08)   Page 2 of 2
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                             Project Number                                                         Key Number

                                 A011(657)                                                              11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                     Begin Mile Post                   End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                             4.983                             4.3983

Alternative 10 - Initial Build                                                        Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $150,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 15                    Number of Relocations 3                           $980,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $331,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $91,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $378,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $135,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $10,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $192,700
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $1,137,700
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $114,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $250,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $1,501,700
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $2,631,700
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
ITD 1150 (Rev. 3-05)                                 Project Cost Summary Sheet

Round Estimates to Nearest $1,000
Date                          Project Number                                                            Key Number

                              A011(657)                                                                 11657
Location                                                                                                District

Intersection Alameda Road and Pocatello Creek Rd, Pocatello                                             5
Segment Code                  Begin Mile Post                      End Mile Post      Length in Miles

3190                          4.983                                4.3983

Alternative 10 - Ultimate Build                                                       Previous ITD 1150 Initial or Revise To
 1. Preliminary Engineering                                                                                 $377,000
 2. Right-of-Way: Number of Parcels 27                    Number of Relocations 5                           $2,388,000
 3. Utility Adjustments:          Work        Materials      By State     By Others                         $100,000
 4. Earthwork                                                                                               $779,000
 5. Drainage and Minor Structures                                                                           $185,000
 6. Pavement and Base                                                                                       $1,003,000
 7. Railroad Crossing:
       Grade/Separation Structure
       At-Grade Signals     Yes          No
 8. Bridges/Grade Separation Structures:
        New Structure
        Location
        Length/Width
        Repair/Widening/Rehabilitation
        Location
        Length/Width
 9. Traffic Items (Delineators, Signing, Channelization, Lighting, and Signals)                             $327,000
10. Construction Traffic Control (Sign, Pavement Markings, Flagging, and Traffic
    Separation)                                                                                             $34,000
11. Detours
12. Landscaping
13. Mitigation Measures
14. Other Items (Roadside Development, Guardrail, Fencing, Sidewalks, Curb and
    Gutter, C.S.S. Items)                                                                                   $428,690
15. Cost of Constructions (Items 3 through 14)                                                              $2,856,690
16. Mobilization 10 % of Item 15                                                                            $286,000
17. Construction Engineer and Contingencies               20 % of Items 15 and 16                           $629,000
18. Total Construction Cost (15 + 16 + 17)                                                                  $3,771,690
19. Total Project Cost ( 1 + 2 + 18)                                                                        $6,536,690
20. Project Cost Per Mile                                                             #VALUE!               #DIV/0!
Prepared By:


Jeremy Robbins, PE
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 10-Int.)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      15              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            3

New Alignment:                                            0.20 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                                          68.00 ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
           Residential           Developed                0.68    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =             $147,460
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                   $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 0.93    acres @         $392,042          /acre              =             $364,991
                                 Undeveloped              0.15    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =              $78,461
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 3      @            $100,000          (average)          =             $300,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                   $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 0      @            $150,000          (average)          =                   $0
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                   $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                        $890,912
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                       $89,091
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                     $980,003
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                      Date:           10/5/2010
         ITD-2839   27-228070-2                                                                                                 Sheet 1 of 1
                                               Right of Way Cost Estimate
Date:        October 6, 2010                                                Key No:                 11657
                                                                            Project No:             A011(657)
                                                                            Project Name:           Int. Alameda & Jefferson, Pocatello (Alt 10-Ult.)

No. of parcels requiring acquisitions:                      27              Number of parcels requiring relocations:                            5

New Alignment:                                            0.60 miles        Basic R/W Width:                                                        ft.

Existing Alignment:                                       0.00 miles        Additional R/W Width:                            68 - 100               ft.


DIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
A. Land only
          Agriculture  Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       n/a                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
          Graze        Irrigated                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                       Dry                                0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                                          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
             Timber              Income Producing         0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Harvestable              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
                                 Non-Harvestable          0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Residential           Developed                0.83    acres @         $217,814          /acre              =            $180,546
                                 Undeveloped              0.00    acres @               $0          /acre              =                  $0
           Commercial\IndustrialDeveloped                 1.97    acres @         $366,046          /acre              =            $719,354
                                 Undeveloped              1.38    acres @         $522,723          /acre              =            $721,358
           Damages Anticipated                                                                                         =
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
B. Site Improvements
           Agriculture           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Residential           No. of Structures            0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Commercial\IndustrialNo. of Structures             0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Damages Anticipated
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =
C. Relocation
           Developed AgricultureNo. Expected                  0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
           Developed Residential
                Single Family    No. Expected                 4      @            $100,000          (average)          =            $400,000
                Multi-Family     No. Expected                 0      @                  $0          (average)          =                  $0
           Developed Comm\Ind.   No. Expected                 1      @            $150,000          (average)          =            $150,000
           Miscellaneous                                                                                               =

INDIRECT ACQUISITION COSTS:
        Appra./Imp.Agri.    No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                       $0
        Appra./Imp.Resid.
                2685        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                2288        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
               B&A          No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appra./Imp.Com.-Ind.No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Appraisals/Land     No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Negotiations        No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
        Demolitions         No. Expected                      0      @                   $0         (average)          =                  $0
                                                                                                    Sub-Total                     $2,171,257
INCIDENTALS:
             Estimated as a percentage of overall costs.                                10.00 %                                     $217,126
(Includes Title Costs, Admin. Settle., Legal Settle., Attorney & Court Costs, Property Mngmnt. & Misc.)
                                                                              Total Estimated Project R/W Costs:                  $2,388,383
Proposed R/W Plans Approval Date              Projected R/W Expenditure Years                       Contruction Year(s)


Estimtd. By: Jeremy Robbins,PE                                        Title: PM                                      Date:          10/5/2010
                                   Alameda/Jefferson
                                     City of Pocatello
                                       Alternate 10
                                Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                         10/6/2010




Summary Of Costs                        Initial      Ultimate
 Earthwork/Removal                   $331,000        $778,800
 Pavement/Base                       $377,600      $1,003,000
 Drainage                             $91,200        $184,800
 Erosion Control                      $18,700         $37,490
 Concrete                            $174,000        $361,200
 Traffic                             $135,000        $327,000
 Construction Traffic Control         $10,100         $34,390
Construction Subtotal              $1,137,600      $2,726,680
                                              Alameda/Jefferson
                                                City of Pocatello
                                                  Alternate 10
                                           Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                    10/6/2010

                               Initial Construction

           Item #                   Item                         Quantity   UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                             Earthwork/Removal
203-005A            Rem of Obstructions                              1       LS     $10,000.00    $10,000.00
203-015A            Rem of Bituminous Surf                         8000      SY          $2.50    $20,000.00
203-060A            Rem of Conc Sidewalk                           1200      SY          $6.00     $7,200.00
203-070A            Rem of Curb & Gutter                           1400      FT          $4.50     $6,300.00
205-005A            Excavation                                    13100      CY         $15.00   $196,500.00
S203-05A            Demolition                                       1       LS     $90,000.00    $90,000.00
S203-45A            Rem of Existing Signs                           10      EACH       $100.00     $1,000.00
                                                                                      Subtotal   $331,000.00

                                                  Pavement/Base
303-021A            3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                        5300     TON         $22.00   $116,600.00
301-005A            Granular Subbase                               4250     TON         $13.00    $55,250.00
S405-20A            Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                       2250     TON         $90.00   $202,500.00
S405-41A            Approach                                        5       EACH       $650.00     $3,250.00
                                                                                      Subtotal   $377,600.00

                                                     Drainage
605-500A            Catch Basin                                     15      EACH     $1,300.00    $19,500.00
605-600A            Inlet                                           15      EACH     $2,101.00    $31,515.00
605-025A            12" Storm Sewer Pipe                            950      FT         $36.00    $34,200.00
605-450A            Manhole                                          3      EACH     $2,000.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                      Subtotal    $91,215.00

                                                  Erosion Control
205-060A            Water for Dust Abatement                        20       MG         $34.00       $680.00
212-095A            Inlet Protection                                10      EACH        $11.50       $115.00
212-020A            Silt Fence                                     1500      FT          $4.50     $6,750.00
212-060A            Stabilized Construction Entrance                 2      EACH     $2,600.00     $5,200.00
S212-05A            Fiber Wattles                                  1500      FT          $4.00     $6,000.00
                                                                                      Subtotal    $18,745.00

                                                     Concrete
613-005A            Conc Sidewalk                                  2600      SY         $27.00    $70,200.00
614-005A            Urban Approaches                                10      EACH       $800.00     $8,000.00
614-010A            Conc For Urban Approaches                       40       CY        $200.00     $8,000.00
615-430A            Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2                  4400      FT         $20.00    $88,000.00
                                                                                      Subtotal   $174,200.00

                                                       Traffic
616-010A            Sign Type B                                     200      SF         $18.00     $3,600.00
656-005A            Traffic Signal installation                      1       LS    $120,000.00   $120,000.00
S900-60A            Pavement Markings                              4000      FT          $0.25     $1,000.00
S900-62A            Pav Marking Thermoplastic                      1000      SF         $10.00    $10,000.00
                                                                                      Subtotal   $134,600.00
                                     Alameda/Jefferson
                                       City of Pocatello
                                         Alternate 10
                                  Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                           10/6/2010



                               Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B                   200      SF      $7.00     $1,400.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III             5      EACH    $80.00       $400.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                          30     EACH    $25.00       $750.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance                 100     MNHR    $42.00     $4,200.00
630-005A   Flagging                                   80       HR     $37.00     $2,960.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers               50     EACH     $8.50       $425.00
                                                                     Subtotal   $10,135.00
                                             Alameda/Jefferson
                                               City of Pocatello
                                                 Alternate 10
                                          Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                                   10/6/2010
                                       Ultimate Construction

       Item #                   Item                          Quantity   UNIT Unit Price      Cost
                                              Earthwork/Removal
203-005A        Rem of Obstructions                               1       LS     $20,000.00     $20,000.00
203-015A        Rem of Bituminous Surf                         23250      SY          $2.50     $58,125.00
203-060A        Rem of Conc Sidewalk                           3700       SY          $6.00     $22,200.00
203-070A        Rem of Curb & Gutter                            4500      FT          $4.50     $20,250.00
205-005A        Excavation                                     27750      CY         $15.00    $416,250.00
S203-05A        Demolition                                       2        LS    $120,000.00    $240,000.00
S203-45A        Rem of Existing Signs                            20      EACH       $100.00      $2,000.00
                                                                                   Subtotal    $778,825.00

                                               Pavement/Base
303-021A        3/4" Aggr TY A for Base                        14175     TON         $22.00     $311,850.00
301-005A        Granular Subbase                               5500      TON         $13.00      $71,500.00
S405-20A        Superpave HMA Pav CL SP-                        6800     TON         $90.00     $612,000.00
S405-41A        Approach                                         11      EACH       $650.00       $7,150.00
                                                                                   Subtotal   $1,002,500.00

                                                   Drainage
605-500A        Catch Basin                                      23      EACH     $1,300.00     $29,900.00
605-600A        Inlet                                            23      EACH     $2,101.00     $48,323.00
605-025A        12" Storm Sewer Pipe                            2350      FT         $36.00     $84,600.00
605-450A        Manhole                                          11      EACH     $2,000.00     $22,000.00
                                                                                   Subtotal    $184,823.00

                                               Erosion Control
205-060A        Water for Dust Abatement                         40       MG         $34.00      $1,360.00
212-095A        Inlet Protection                                 20      EACH        $11.50        $230.00
212-020A        Silt Fence                                      3000      FT          $4.50     $13,500.00
212-060A        Stabilized Construction Entrance                  4      EACH     $2,600.00     $10,400.00
S212-05A        Fiber Wattles                                   3000      FT          $4.00     $12,000.00
                                                                                   Subtotal     $37,490.00

                                                   Concrete
613-005A        Conc Sidewalk                                   5600      SY         $27.00    $151,200.00
614-005A        Urban Approaches                                 20      EACH       $800.00     $16,000.00
614-010A        Conc For Urban Approaches                        80       CY        $200.00     $16,000.00
615-430A        Comb Curb & Gutter Ty A or C2                   8900      FT         $20.00    $178,000.00
                                                                                   Subtotal    $361,200.00

                                                    Traffic
616-010A        Sign Type B                                      400      SF         $18.00      $7,200.00
656-005A        Traffic Signal installation                       1       LS    $295,000.00    $295,000.00
S900-60A        Pavement Markings                              11000      FT          $0.25      $2,750.00
S900-62A        Pav Marking Thermoplastic                       2200      SF         $10.00     $22,000.00
                                                                                   Subtotal    $326,950.00
                                        Alameda/Jefferson
                                          City of Pocatello
                                            Alternate 10
                                     Preliminary Cost Estimate
                                              10/6/2010



                                 Construction Traffic Control
626-010A   Rent Const. Sign Class B                     400       SF      $7.00     $2,800.00
626-040A   Rent Const. Barricades Type III              10       EACH    $80.00       $800.00
626-050A   Rent Drums Class B                           60       EACH    $25.00     $1,500.00
626-105A   Traffic Contol Maintenance                   400      MNHR    $42.00    $16,800.00
630-005A   Flagging                                     280       HR     $37.00    $10,360.00
626-115A   Rent Portable Tubular Markers                250      EACH     $8.50     $2,125.00
                                                                        Subtotal   $34,385.00
    APPENDIX L
Environmental Scan
                           7761 W RIVERSIDE DRIVE, SUITE 201
                           BOISE, ID 83714-5044
                           T. 208.898.0012 F. 208.947.1655
                           www.parametrix.com




                           TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM

Date:               January 22, 2010
To:                 Jesse Schuerman, Project Manager
                    City of Pocatello
From:               Kristen Levandusky
Subject:            Environmental Scan
cc:                 PMX Project File
Project Number:     A011(657), Key No. 11657
Project Name:       Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection Improvements


INTRODUCTION

The Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue Intersection is located in the city of Pocatello in Bannock County, ID.
The intersection is a very complex, non-traditional intersection and has been identified by the City for
improvements to upgrade the capacity and safety for passenger vehicles, trucks, and pedestrians.

This Environmental Scan was prepared to identify the environmental concerns within the project study area. This
information will be critical as the project moves into the subsequent phases in order to identify the magnitude of
the environmental scope that will be necessary. This report describes the built and natural environmental
resources known to occur, or have the potential to exist in the study area. Identification of the elements is critical
to transportation planning at this intersection. Key elements identified in the report include socioeconomics,
parks, recreation areas, historic resources, geology & soils, hazardous material, threatened and endangered
species, air quality, and wetlands.

If federal funds are planned to be used for construction of this project, the evaluation of environmental impacts
must be conducted in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act.

ENVIRONMENTAL SUMMARY

Socioeconomics & Land Use

The City of Pocatello is located in southeast Idaho, in Bannock County. Table 1 shows the 2000 Census
population characteristics for the City of Pocatello. The population is primarily white, with approximately 15% of
the City population below the government poverty thresholds.


                                       Table 1. Population Characteristics

      Demographic Characteristic                   City of Pocatello                        State of Idaho
 Total Population, 2000                                 51,466                                1,293,953
                                                                                    TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM (CONTINUED)

 Total Population, 2006 (Estimate)                                       53,932                                 1,466,465
 Housing units, 2000                                                     20,627                                 527,824
 Persons per household, 2000                                               2.58                                   2.69
 Source- US Census Bureau- http://quickfacts.census.gov/qfd\states/16/1664090.html, Accessed January 20, 2010


Based on the windshield survey, there does not appear to be a disproportionate minority or low income population
in the immediate project area.

Parks, Recreation Areas, and Historic Resources

A review of the City of Pocatello public park maps, and a windshield survey indicated that there are no existing
public parks in the study area.

A research of the National Register of Historic Places in Idaho from the State Historic Preservation Office
(SHPO) indicated that there are no listed historic places in the study area. In addition, a viewshed analysis was
completed, and no structures appeared to be potentially eligible sites. However, the SHPO office was contacted,
but information had not been gathered at the time this technical memo was prepared.

Geology & Soils

An online web soil survey was conducted through the US Department of Agriculture. The survey found that the
soil in the study area is Urban land-Bahem-Broxon complex, with a slope of 3 to 6 percent. The water table, and
the nearest restrictive feature appear to be at least 80 inches below the surface.

Hazardous Material

According to the US Environmental Protection Agency Environmapper web-based mapping application, there are
no facilities identified as Superfund cleanup sites, nor any active leaking underground storage tanks in the study
area.

Threatened/Endangered Species

The US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) has identified federally protected, proposed for protection, and
candidate species of plants and wildlife in Bannock County. Table 2 identifies their status.


                                            Table 2. Threatened and Endangered Species

 Species                                                                         Status
 Utah Valvata Snail (Valvata utahensis)                                          Listed Endangered
 Yellow-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus)                                      Candidate
 Source: US Fish and Wildlife Service- http://fws.gov/idahoes/County, Accessed January 20, 2010


The Utah Valvata Snail was listed as an endangered species, under the Federal Endangered Species Act in 1992.
Since that time, it has been determined that the Valvata Snail is not limited to areas of cold-water springs or
spring outflows, as was believed in 1992. Rather, it exists in a variety of aquatic habitats, including cold-water
springs, spring creeks and tributaries, the mainstem Snake River and associated tributary stream habitats, and
reservoirs influenced by dam operations. Because of this information, the species no longer meets the
requirements set forth by the Federal Endangered Species Act. A recommendation was made in July 2009 for the
Utah Valvata Snail to be delisted from the US Fish & Wildlife Services' endangered species list.



City of Pocatello                                                                                                   A011(657), Key No. 11657
Environmental Scan                                                           2                                              January 22, 2010
                                                               TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM (CONTINUED)

Air Quality

Under the authority of the Clean Air Act (CAA), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has developed
air quality standards that limit the maximum levels of certain pollutants in outdoor air. The Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality is governing authority for air quality issues and enforces the regulations throughout the
entire state of Idaho, including Bannock County and the City of Pocatello.

In 1990, the Portneuf Valley, which includes portions of Power and Bannock Counties, including the City of
Pocatello, were designated a moderate nonattainment area for PM-10 by operation of law upon enactment of the
Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. However, on July 13, 2006, EPA approved a maintenance plan submitted for
the Pocatello area, and granted the re-designation of the Portneuf Valley to attainment for PM-10. Attainment
areas are geographic areas where the criteria pollutants, as established by the EPA, meet or are below the National
Ambient Air Quality Standards.

Wetlands

A review of the National Wetland Inventory maps did not indicate any wetlands in the project area. The Pocatello
Creek, which runs underground directly below the intersection, is likely to be considered a "waters of the US'
under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act by the US Army Corps of Engineers because of its likely connection to
the Portneuf River.

Permitting

NPDES General Permit for Storm Water Discharges from Construction Activity

If ground-disturbing activities are greater than 1 acre to improve the Alameda Road & Jefferson Avenue
intersection, under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), authorization to discharge
stormwater under and NPDES construction stormwater permit would be required.

Construction activities in Idaho are covered by a general permit for stormwater discharges from construction sites.
This permit outlines a set of provisions construction operators must follow to comply with the requirements of the
NPDES stormwater regulations. This permit covers any site 1 acre and above, including smaller sites that are part
of a larger common plan of development or sale. In order to be covered under the construction general permit, a
site-specific stormwater pollution prevention plan must be developed. The construction manager must document
the erosion, sediment, and pollution controls she intends to use, inspect the controls periodically, and maintain the
controls throughout the life of the project.

A Notice of Intent would need to be filed with the US Environmental Protection Agency for coverage under this
general permit to ensure storm water discharges from construction do not adversely affect nearby receiving
waters. The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality's "Catalog of Stormwater Best Management Practices
for Idaho Cities and Counties" should be consulted on the best ways to manage storm water runoff if a project is
constructed.

Joint Application for Permits

If waters of the US, including wetlands and irrigation canals, would be dredged and/or filled by proposed
construction activity, a joint application for permits would need to be prepared and submitted to the US Army
Corps of Engineers for review to obtain permission for such activity.




City of Pocatello                                                                                A011(657), Key No. 11657
Environmental Scan                                        3                                              January 22, 2010
                                                              TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM (CONTINUED)


REFERENCES

Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. Stormwater and NPDES. Retrieved from
    http://www.deq.state.id.us/water/permits_forms/permitting/npdes/storm_water.cfm on January 21, 2010.

Idaho State Historical Society. National Register of Historic Places. Retrieved from
    http://www.idahohistory.net/natregister.html on January 20, 2010.

US Census Bureau. Pocatello QuickFacts. Census data retrieved from
   http://quickfacts.census.gov/qfd/states/16/1664090.html on January 20, 2010.

US Department of Agriculture. National Cooperative Soil Survey. Prime farmland soils for Bannock County.
   Retrieved from http://websoilsurvey.nrcs.usda.gov/app/ on January 20, 2010.

US Environmental Protection Agency. EnviroMapper. Hazardous material sites retrieved from
   http://www.epa.gov/emefdata on January 20, 2010.

US Fish and Wildlife Service. National Wetland Inventory. Wetland data retrieved from
   http://wetlandsfws.er.usgs.gov/imf/imf.jsp?site=NWI_CONUS on January 20, 2010.

US Fish and Wildlife Service. Threatened & Endangered Species Listing. Retrieved from
   www.fws.gov/idaho/agencies/COlists/Bannock.pdf on January 20, 2010.




City of Pocatello                                                                           A011(657), Key No. 11657
Environmental Scan                                       4                                          January 22, 2010
     APPENDIX M
Geotechnical Reports
Final Abbreviated Phase I Materials Report,
Geological Reconnaissance and
Life-Cycle Cost Analysis
Alameda / Jefferson Intersection
ITD Project No. A0011(657);Key No. 11657
Pocatello, Idaho

for
Parametrix, Inc.

June 16, 2010




  1525 South David Lane
  Boise, Idaho 83705
  208.433.8098
                                 Final Abbreviated Phase I Materials
                                               Report,
                                   Geological Reconnaissance and
                                       Life-Cycle Cost Analysis
                          Alameda / Jefferson Intersection
                     ITD Project No. A0011(657);Key No. 11657
                                  Pocatello, Idaho
                                                          File No. 4420-059-00

                                                                June 16, 2010

Prepared for:

Parametrix, Inc.
7761 West Riverside Drive, Suite 201
Boise, Idaho 83714

Attention: Todd Johnson, PE

Prepared by:

GeoEngineers, Inc.
1525 South David Lane
Boise, Idaho 83705
208.433.8098




Seth P. Olsen, EIT                                                         Brian R. Marker, PE
Staff Engineer                                                             Project Engineer




Paul E. Wasser, PE
Associate

SPO:BRM:PEW:mlh
http://projects/sites/0442005900/Finals/Alameda Jefferson Phase I Report.docx

Disclaimer: Any electronic form, facsimile or hard copy of the original document (email, text, table, and/or figure), if provided, and any attachments are
only a copy of the original document. The original document is stored by GeoEngineers, Inc. and will serve as the official document of record.
Table of Contents
220.1 INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................................................1
220.2 CONCLUSIONS ...................................................................................................................................1
220.3 TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY ..........................................................................................................2
220.3.1       Topography ............................................................................................................................. 2
220.3.2       Geomorphology and Stratigraphy .......................................................................................... 2
220.3.3       Geologic Structure .................................................................................................................. 2
220.3.4       Soils and Vegetation .............................................................................................................. 3
220.4 SURFACE WATER ..............................................................................................................................4
220.5 GROUNDWATER ................................................................................................................................4
220.6 GEOLOGIC CONSTRAINTS ................................................................................................................4
220.6.1       Seismic Risk ........................................................................................................................... 4
220.6.2       Faults ...................................................................................................................................... 5
220.6.3       Landslides............................................................................................................................... 6
220.6.4       Water ....................................................................................................................................... 6
220.6.5       Settlement and Embankment Foundations.......................................................................... 6
220.6.6       Geologic Structure .................................................................................................................. 6
220.6.7       Highway Construction Materials ............................................................................................ 7
220.7 RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................................................................................................7
220.7.1       Slopes and Embankments ..................................................................................................... 7
220.7.2       Structures ............................................................................................................................... 7
220.7.3       Drainage.................................................................................................................................. 7
220.7.4       Shrink/Swell ........................................................................................................................... 7
220.7.5       Tentative Ballast ..................................................................................................................... 7
220.7.6       Tentative Material Sources .................................................................................................... 8
220.8 REFERENCES ....................................................................................................................................8
LIFE-CYCLE COST ANALYSIS REPORT SUMMARY .................................................................................. 10
Introduction .......................................................................................................................................... 10
Design Criteria ...................................................................................................................................... 10
Alternatives........................................................................................................................................... 11
Conclusions .......................................................................................................................................... 12


APPENDICES
Appendix A. Figures
Appendix B. Logs of Borings
Appendix C. Pavement Design and Life-Cycle Cost Analysis
Appendix D. Laboratory Testing Results




                                                                                                                                   June 9, 2010 | Page i
                                                                                                                                            File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




220.1 INTRODUCTION

This Abbreviated Phase I Geological Reconnaissance Report was prepared to evaluate the geologic
setting for the improvement of the intersection of East Alameda Road, Pocatello Creek Road,
Jefferson Avenue, and Hiline Road, in Pocatello Idaho. The objective of the abbreviated Phase I
investigation is to identify geologic conditions and constraints that may affect reconstruction
activities and determine a pavement type. The project location is shown on Figure 1, Vicinity Map
in Appendix A.

The existing East Alameda Road, east of Jefferson Avenue, consists of a two-lane minor side street
with a left turn pocket at Tendoy Elementary School. The existing Jefferson Avenue is a three-lane
road, one south bound and two north bound lanes that split into three directional lanes at the
intersection with East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road. The existing Hiline Road is also a
three-lane road with one south bound lane, two north bound lanes and a left turn lane. The exiting
Pocatello Creek Road consists of a four-lane arterial road with a left turn lane and a right turn lane
west bound. Pocatello Creek Road becomes East Alameda Road west of the intersection of Hiline
Road/Jefferson Avenue. Pocatello Creek Road/East Alameda Road are also referenced by ITD as
the I-15 Business Loop (I-15B), but are not on the NHS. The roadways are shown on Figure 2 in
Appendix A.

The project consists of approximately 800 lineal feet of reconstruction/widening along the existing
Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue, and approximately 850 lineal feet of reconstruction/widening along
the existing East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road.                     Also included is the
realignment/reconstruction of East Alameda Road east of Jefferson Avenue with a new alignment
connecting Deon Drive and East Alameda Road. Multiple design alternatives are being considered
for the intersection, East Alameda Road east of Jefferson Avenue and the new alignment
connecting Deon Drive and East Alameda Road.

Surface geologic conditions within approximately ½ mile of the intersection were observed for this
report. The pavement at the existing intersection showed low severity potholes, moderate to high
severity longitudinal cracking in the wheel paths, moderate block cracking in the northeast corner
of the intersection (on Pocatello Creek Road), and high severity edge cracking and raveling on the
west corner of the intersection between Hiline Road and East Alameda Road.

Kleinfelder's geologic site reconnaissance was conducted on March 15, 2010, and Kleinfelder's
subsurface investigation was performed on March 26, 2010.


220.2 CONCLUSIONS

Based on the results of this survey, no geologic conditions were observed that would negatively
affect the reconstruction or realignment of the proposed roadway project. It should be noted that
the intersection is in an urban location; alternative locations for the intersection are not feasible.

Specific areas of investigation are described in detail in the following sections. A summary of
findings for consideration by the design engineer includes the following:




                                                                                   June 9, 2010 | Page 1
                                                                                          File No. 4420-059-00
                                                                ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




 Although no frost heave damage was observed, the limited subsurface investigation
       encountered layers of silt and silty clay which could cause frost heave. In addition, proper
       drainage will be required in areas of silt and silty clay subgrade to maintain consistent support
       characteristics. Section 220.3.4 Soils and Vegetation discusses this issue in greater detail.
 Groundwater in the area is considered deep [>6 feet below ground surface (bgs) (USDA Soil
       Survey & IDWR)]. Limited subsurface investigation (to 9 feet bgs) did not encounter
       groundwater. Based on the subsurface investigation, groundwater is not expected to impact
       construction of the project.
 Reconstruction options were compared using Life-Cycle Cost Analysis (LCCA). A flexible
       pavement section appears to be the best option for this intersection, based on the LCCA
       comparison. The comparison of flexible to rigid pavement reconstruction options is discussed
       in the Life-Cycle Cost Report Summary included as part of this report.


220.3 TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY

220.3.1 Topography
The project is located between the eastern Portneuf River Valley and the western slope of the
Pocatello Range known as the Pocatello Bench. The project intersection is located at
approximately Elevation 4,530 feet above Mean Sea Level (MSL). The project intersection is
relatively flat, sloping slightly downward toward the southwest. Beyond the intersection to the
north, east and southeast the ground increases from Elevation 4,610 to Elevation 4,710 feet MSL.

220.3.2 Geomorphology and Stratigraphy
The existing intersection is comprised of alluvial-fan and flow deposits derived from infrequent
flash floods and debris flows from tributary stream valleys and canyons. Deposits of the
Quaternary alluvial-fan and debris flow include a mix of muddy sand, with clasts from pebbles up to
boulders and lamination of silty redeposited loess (Othberg 2002). There were no exposed rock
outcrops in the project area.

A conglomerate unit is located approximately 800 feet north of the intersection. The unit consists
of clast-supported cobble conglomerate (up to 8 inches) with orange to red-brown sand and tuff
matrix. Approximately 1,000 feet north and 1,000 to 1,400 feet east to southeast of the
intersection is Loess-mantled alluvial-fan gravel of the ancestral Pocatello Creek. This unit consists
of roughly stratified clay and fine-grained sand with fine subrounded to rounded gravel and cobbles
mantled with loess.

220.3.3 Geologic Structure
Rock outcrops were present approximately 800 to 1,000 feet north of project intersection. Based
on geologic data presented by Othberg (2002) the intersection does not encounter surficial or
buried geologic structures. A normal fault (Othberg) is located approximately 900 feet north of the
intersection. The fault is within the conglomerate unit and the loess-mantled alluvial-fan. The fault
presented is approximately 500 feet long. R. Breckenridge (2003) documents two normal faults
approximately 15 miles east and 8 miles west of the intersection described in Section 220.6.2
Faults of this report.


Page 2 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




Bedding, joint, fracture or fold orientations were not noted by Othberg (2002). The principal
structural grain in the region is one of north-trending normal faults defining the eastern margin of
the Portneuf River Valley, typical of the northern Basin and Range Physiographic Province.

220.3.4 Soils and Vegetation
There is one surficial soil type within the intersection (USDA Soil Number 90) as described in the
Soil Conservation Service (SCS) September 1987 Soil Survey (USDA, 1987). This soil is the Urban
Land Bahem-Broxom Complex and is described below based on the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA), Unified Soil Classification System (USCS) and the American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) System. The soil classification, as presented by the
USDA (1987), represents the soil type to a depth of approximately 60 inches. A description of the
soil type is presented below.

Urban land Bahem-Broxon complex

The Bahem-Broxon complex (0 to 3 percent slopes) occurs along the entire intersection. The
Bahem-Broxon silt loam forms in silty alluvium and is very deep and well drained. Surface runoff is
slow and the hazard of erosion is slight. According to the soil survey, Bahem-Broxon silt loam soils
typically have an ML or CL-ML classification based on the USCS or an A-4 classification based on
the AASHTO system in the upper 49 inches. From 49 to 60 inches the Bahem-Broxon is an
extremely cobbly and stony sand typically classified as GP, GP-GM according to USCS, and A-1
based on the AASHTO classification. Depth to bedrock in this soil unit is typically greater than five
feet.

A limited subsurface exploration program was completed for preliminary pavement
recommendations. The exploration consisted of four borings (10-KLF-B1 through 10-KLF-B4) to a
maximum depth of 9 feet below the existing ground surface. Borings 10-KLF-B1 and 10-KLF-B2,
on Pocatello Creek Road and Hiline Road, respectively, indicate that the existing pavement section
consists of approximately 4 to 5 inches of asphalt underlain by about 9 inches of aggregate base.
Dense to very dense sand and gravel with various amounts of silt and clay (silty sand with gravel
and silty clayey gravel with sand) supported the pavement structure to the maximum depth
explored (about 6½ feet below the existing ground surface). Borings 10-KLF-B3 and 10-KLF-B4, on
Jefferson Avenue and East Alameda Road (east of Jefferson Avenue), respectively, indicate that the
existing pavement section consists of approximately 3 to 3½ inches of asphalt underlain by about
2½ to 6 inches of aggregate base. A geotextile fabric appears to have been placed between the
pavement section and the native soils at the location of boring 10-KLF-B4. Supporting the
pavement structure was medium stiff silt with sand and silty clay to the maximum depth explored
(about 9 feet below the existing ground surface). Groundwater was not encountered during the
field exploration. The exploration logs are included in Appendix C, and the approximate locations of
the borings are shown on Figure 2, Boring Location Map in Appendix A.

The sand and gravel with silt and clay encountered in borings 10-KLF-B1 and 10-KLF-B2 are
expected to provide relatively uniform support of the pavement sections. The silt and silty clay
encountered in borings 10-KLF-B3 and 10-KLF-B4 will be susceptible to frost heave and will also
be susceptible to changing support characteristics with changes in moisture content.




                                                                                  June 9, 2010 | Page 3
                                                                                         File No. 4420-059-00
                                                              ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




The intersection is located in urban Pocatello; vegetation consisted of landscape grass, bushes,
and trees.


220.4 SURFACE WATER

One perennial surface water body, Pocatello Creek, is conveyed within an aqueduct through the
project. The Pocatello Creek aqueduct parallels the south side of Pocatello Creek Road until it
nears the intersection with Deon Drive, where it crosses to the north side of Pocatello Creek Road.
The aqueduct crosses Hiline Road near the north end of the project and continues south,
intersecting Alameda Road near the intersection of Randolph Avenue, and turns to parallel the
north side of Alameda Road.

There are no other natural surface water features at the project location. All four roadways include
curb and gutter within 1,000 feet of the intersection, with any surface runoff directed to drop inlets.

According to the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map for this area (FEMA, 2009), the intersection is
located within Zones AO and X. Zone AO has an average of one to three feet of flood depth, usually
street flow on slopped terrain. Hiline Road is in Zone X, an area of 0.2 percent annual chance of
flooding, with an average of less than one foot of flood depth.


220.5 GROUNDWATER

According to the USDA Soil Survey (1987), groundwater in the area of the existing alignment is
considered relatively deep (greater than six feet below the existing ground surface). According to
the Idaho Department of Water Resources the static groundwater depth of wells in the area is 70
feet below the existing ground surface. Groundwater was not encountered during the field
investigation to depths of about nine feet below the existing ground surface.

As mentioned in Section 220.4 Surface Water of this report, the Pocatello Creek aqueduct
traverses the project limits. The Pocatello Creek Aqueduct is a concrete pipe approximately seven
(7) feet in diameter which routes Pocatello Creek through the City of Pocatello to the Portneuf
River. During the periods when water is flowing in the aqueduct, there is a potential for leakage
from the pipe, which may result in localized saturation of the subgrade soils.


220.6 GEOLOGIC CONSTRAINTS

220.6.1 Seismic Risk
Past seismic activity data was obtained from Stover, Reagor, and Algermissen (1991). According to
this source, no earthquake epicenters were mapped within 20 miles of the project. The nearest
recorded epicenter is a Modified Mercalli Magnitude II event, located approximately 24 miles east
of Pocatello.

The project is located in relatively close proximity to three active earthquake zones, the Lost River
Fault System located approximately 80 miles to the north, the northern portion of the Wasatch
Fault Zone located approximately 90 miles to the south, and the Greater Yellowstone area located


Page 4 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




approximately 150 miles to the northeast. These areas have experienced earthquakes ranging in
magnitude from 6.5 to 7.9 within the past 60 years.

Historic seismic intensity information was reviewed in Sprenke and Breckenridge (1992).
Maximum seismic intensity data was summarized in 10-year time intervals covering the period
from 1880 to 1989. Maximum observed earthquake-induced ground shaking in the region
reached magnitude V on the Modified Mercalli Intensity Scale during four decades: the 1910's,
1930's, 1950's and the 1980's (Sprenke and Breckenridge, 1992), as detailed below.

 The 1910's rating is attributed to the Modified Mercalli Intensity VII earthquake near
     Montpelier, Idaho on May 13, 1914;
 The 1930's rating is attributed to the Richter Magnitude 6.6 earthquake in Hansel Valley, Utah
     in 1934 and Modified Mercalli Intensity VI earthquake near Montpelier, Idaho on June 12,
     1930;
 The 1950's rating is attributed to the Richter Magnitude 7.5 earthquake near Hebgen Lake,
     Montana in 1959, and
 The 1980's rating is attributed to the Richter Magnitude 7.3 (Modified Mercalli Intensity IX)
     Borah Peak earthquake on October 28, 1983.
Probable ground shaking intensity for future seismic events is presented in two scenarios; one for
structures located on bedrock, and the second for structures located on soil. For structures on
bedrock, Sprenke and Breckenridge (1992) predict a 90 percent probability that a Mercalli
Magnitude VII will not be exceeded in the next 50 years. For structures on soil, they predict a 90
percent probability that a Mercalli Magnitude V will not be exceeded in the next 50 years.

Based on the limited subsurface data, groundwater levels, soil classification, and soil densities
there is low potential for seismically induced liquefaction and settlement. However, more detailed
subsurface data will be required to adequately determine seismically induced liquefaction and
settlement potential. The Pocatello Creek aqueduct is the only existing structure, and no additional
structures are planned for this project, so potential seismic damage would be limited to the
aqueduct.

According to the 2008 Interim Revisions of the AASHTO LRFD Bridge Design Specification, the site
has a peak horizontal ground acceleration coefficient (PGA) of 0.15g (Figure 3.10.2.1-7), a
horizontal spectral acceleration coefficient (Ss) of 0.35 (Figure 3.10.2.1-8), and a horizontal
spectral acceleration coefficient (S1) of 0.11 (Figure 3.10.2.1-9).

The presence of active faults in the area is discussed in Section 220.6.2 Faults of this report.
Figures 16-250.5.8.1 and 16-250.5.8.2, from the ITD Materials Manual, do not indicate the
presence of active faults within a 30-mile radius of the project.

220.6.2 Faults
A normal fault is located approximately 900 feet north of the intersection (Othberg 2002). The
fault is within the conglomerate unit and the loess-mantled alluvial-fan. The fault presented is
approximately 500 feet long. According to R. Breckenridge (2003) there are two normal faults
approximately 15 miles east and 8 miles west of the intersection. Both are approximately 8 miles


                                                                                  June 9, 2010 | Page 5
                                                                                         File No. 4420-059-00
                                                              ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




long and are of the lesser Tertiary in age and have last moved in the past 16 million years. The
fault east of the intersection trends north to south, and the fault west of the intersection trends
north to south then turns to the east toward Pocatello. A discussion of earthquake effects on the
project is included in Section 220.6.1 Seismic Risks of this report.

220.6.3 Landslides
The closest landslides mapped by Adams, Breckenridge and Othberg (1991), occur approximately
6 miles southeast of the project intersection. The site is relatively flat, and as a result, landslides
are not expected to impact the project design and construction.

220.6.4 Water
During Kleinfelder's site reconnaissance, areas of standing water were observed along Jefferson
Avenue, between East Alameda Road and the intersection to the north, and damp areas were
observed along Hiline Road. However, periodic and intermittent standing water appears to
accumulate in the gutters along Jefferson Avenue, Hiline Road, and the north side of East Alameda
Road due to rainfall and snowmelt accumulation. The fine-grained subgrade soils (silty clay and
silt) are moisture sensitive materials and allowing water to infiltrate and/or saturate these soils
may cause loss of subgrade support.

The project area is located in mapped flood zones, as designated in the FEMA Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FEMA, 2009). The project intersection is identified as Zones AO and X. Zone AO is
reported to have one to three feet of flooding and Zone X is reported as an area of minimal flooding
(FEMA, 2009). FEMA Flood Zone designations are discussed in Section 220.4 Surface Water of
this report.

The roadway should be designed with adequate drainage to prevent water ponding and infiltration.
Drainage is expected to include curb and gutter and drop inlets to transport surface water away
from the project. Due to the moisture sensitive subgrade soils, it is important that the surface
water not be allowed to saturate the subgrade soils.

Project construction is not anticipated to have significant effects on groundwater flow.

220.6.5 Settlement and Embankment Foundations
Based on the geologic review of the project site, no geologic condition are present which will
require special treatment of embankment foundations.

The intersection is not expected to require significant changes in grade. The amount of settlement
will depend on the thickness of the existing soil layers, the height of the embankment fill, and the
types of earth materials underlying the embankments.

220.6.6 Geologic Structure
Due to the lack of bedrock outcrops, little is known of the geologic structure at the intersection.
Since the soil strata below the project alignment are relatively deep and no significant cuts are
planned, the geologic structure (jointing, bedding, etc.) is not expected to affect the project design
or construction.



Page 6 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




220.6.7 Highway Construction Materials
Approved Contractor Furnished Sources will be used for imported material on this project.


220.7 RECOMMENDATIONS

220.7.1 Slopes and Embankments
Slopes within the project limits do not exceed one percent. Little change in vertical grade is
expected at the intersection as a result of the project. For minor cuts in the native soils and fill
slopes constructed of imported granular borrow or subbase, slopes are expected to be stable at
2H:1V (Horizontal to Vertical). These slopes will be susceptible to sloughing and erosion with
exposure, and vegetation will need to be established for long term stability. Embankment
settlements cannot be predicted without knowing exact embankment heights, and detailed
subsurface information. However, based on the borings performed for the site, it is expected that
settlements will be up to approximately 4 percent of the embankment height. The majority of the
settlement is expected to take place during construction of the embankment.

220.7.2 Structures
No structures are planned within the project limits.

The drainage at the site consists of curb and gutter with drop inlets. A survey of the drainage
culverts at the site was not performed.

220.7.3 Drainage
There are no established surface water drainages within the project limits. As discussed in Section
220.4 Surface Water, the Pocatello Creek Aqueduct is located within the project limits and consists
of a large concrete pipe culvert. Surface water will be generated from precipitation events, but it is
expected that curb and gutter with drop inlets will be used to transport water away from the
project.

220.7.4 Shrink/Swell
The following shrinkage/swell factors are estimated for preliminary materials estimation purposes:

          Material                                                Approximate Shrink/Swell
          Silty Sand with Gravel/Silty Clayey Gravel                       -10 percent
          Silt/Silty Clay                                                  -15 percent

Shrink/swell, as shown above, refers to the volume change from "bank" to "fill."

220.7.5 Tentative Ballast
The tentative ballast sections for the pavement are presented in Table 1. The tentative ballast
sections are based on R-values of subgrade soils taken from the roadway alignments, the
Equivalent Single Axel Loads (ESAL) values provided by the ITD, and commercial Average Daily
Traffic (ADT) provided by the City of Pocatello. The R-values ranged from 48 to 69, and are



                                                                                   June 9, 2010 | Page 7
                                                                                          File No. 4420-059-00
                                                                   ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




presented on the laboratory test reports in Appendix C. A summary of the design values used to
calculate the pavement sections is presented in the Design Criteria Section of the Life-Cycle Cost
Analysis Report Summary. The pavement calculations are included in Appendix C.

  TABLE 1. TENTATIVE BALLAST SECTIONS

                                                                     Depth
Roadway                               Layer
                                                                     (feet)
                                      Asphalt Concrete               0.45
East Alameda Road/Pocatello
Creek Road                            Three-quarter-inch (3/4 ")
                                                                     0.75
                                      Aggregate Base

                                      Granular Subbase               ---
                                      Asphalt Concrete               0.35
Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue          Three-quarter-inch (3/4 ")
                                                                     0.50
                                      Aggregate Base
                                      Granular Subbase               0.40

East Alameda Road (East of            Asphalt Concrete               0.25
Jefferson Avenue)/New                 Three-quarter-inch (3/4 ")
Alignment                                                            0.50
                                      Aggregate Base
                                      Granular Subbase               0.40


Drainable pavement construction (edge drains or rock cap) does not appear to be necessary for the
roadway alignments.

220.7.6 Tentative Material Sources
All material for the project should be Contractor furnished.


220.8 REFERENCES

Adams, W.C., and Breckenridge, R.M., 1991, Landslides in Idaho, Idaho Geologic Survey, Surficial
       Geology Map Series, scale 1:500,000.

Flood Insurance Rate Map, Pocatello City/Bannock County, Idaho, No. 16005C0239D, 2009,
        Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Idaho Department of Transportation, 2010 Materials Manual, State of Idaho.

Idaho Department of Water Resource, website, www.idwr.gov, Reviewed on March 16, 2010.

Kellogg, K.S., Rodgers, D.W., Hladky, F.R., Kiessling, M.A., and Riesterer, J.W., 1999, The Putnam
        Thrust Plate, Idaho ­ Dismemberment and Tilting by Tertiary Normal Faults, in Guidebook
        to the Geology of Eastern Idaho, Idaho Museum of Natural History and ISU Press, Hughes
        S.S., and Thackray, G.D., editors.




Page 8 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




Marker, B., and Rush, A., Phase I Material Report Geological Reconnaissance and Life-Cycle Cost
        Analysis Alameda Bike Lanes, Project No. STP-7011(102), Key No. 8126, April 2004.

McGrath, C.L., 1987, Soil Survey of Bannock County Area, Idaho, U.S. Department of Agriculture,
       Soil Conservation Service.

Othberg, K.L., 2002, Surfical Geologic Map of the Michaud and Pocatello North Quadrangles,
       Bannock and Power Counties, Idaho.

Sprenke, K.F., and Breckenridge, R.M., 1992, Seismic Intensities in Idaho, Idaho Geologic Survey,
       Information Circular 50.

Stover, C.W., Reagor, B.G., and Algermissen, S.T., 1991, Seismicity Map of the State of Idaho, U.S.
        Geological Survey, Miscellaneous Field Studies Map MF-1857, scale 1:1,000,000.

U.S. Geological Survey, 7.5-Minute Topographic Map, Pocatello North, Idaho Quadrangle, 1971.




                                                                                  June 9, 2010 | Page 9
                                                                                         File No. 4420-059-00
                                                                           ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




LIFE-CYCLE COST ANALYSIS REPORT SUMMARY

Introduction
This preliminary pavement design and life-cycle cost analysis (LCCA) was performed for the
improvement of the intersection of East Alameda Road, Jefferson Avenue, Pocatello Creek Road,
and Hiline Road, in Pocatello, Idaho. The objective of this analysis is to compare pavement
alternatives for the intersection. The pavement analysis was separated into three segments: 1.
East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road; 2. Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue, and 3. East Alameda
Road (east of Jefferson Avenue) and the potential new alignment connecting East Alameda Road
and Deon Drive. The alignments were separated based on differences in traffic loading. Since this
project consists of a planned reconstruction or realignment, only flexible pavement and rigid
pavement alternatives were evaluated for this project.

Design Criteria
We used the ITD Gravel Equivalence (GE) Method to design the flexible pavement alternative, and
the AASHTO Method to design the rigid pavement alternative. The design criteria used to calculate
the thicknesses of the roadways are presented in Tables 2 and 3, below.

  TABLE 2. ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA

      Roadway Classification and Designation                                             Design Criteria
                                                          Traffic Index (TI)               R-value            Substitution Ratios
East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road                    10.8 (20 Years)                  R-value = 60       1.6:1.0

Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue                              8.3 (20 Years)                   R-value = 48       1.8:1.0

East Alameda Road              (East    of    Jefferson
                                                          7.5 (20 Years)                   R-value = 48       2.0:1.0
Avenue)/New Alignment
Base                                                                                       R-value = 80       1.0:1.0
Subbase                                                                                    R-value = 60       0.85:1.0



  TABLE 3. RIGID PAVEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA

Design Item                                                                            Design Criteria
Traffic                                                                                ESALS
East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road                                                 22813000 (ESALS 40 Years)
Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue                                                           1521000 (ESALS 40 Years)
Modulus of Subgrade Reaction
East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road                                                 k = 220 pci
Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue                                                           k = 190 pci
Reliability                                                                            85 percent
Standard Deviation                                                                     0.34
Design Serviceability Loss                                                             2




Page 10 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




Design Item                                                              Design Criteria
Terminal Serviceability                                                  2.5
Concrete Elastic Modulus                                                 4200000 psi
Concrete Modulus of Rupture                                              700 psi
Load Transfer Coefficient                                                2.9
Drainage Coefficient
East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road                                   1.0
Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue                                             0.5


The subgrade soils in the area generally consist of sand and gravel with silt, silt with sand, and silty
clay. Three R-value samples were taken from the area, and the laboratory R-values were estimated
to be 48 (East Alameda Road east of Jefferson Avenue), 48 (Jefferson Avenue), and 69 (Pocatello
Creek Road). A minimum design R-value of 60 was used for East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek
Road; and an minimum design R-value of 48 was used for Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue, East
Alameda Road (east of Jefferson Avenue) and the potential new alignment connecting East
Alameda Road and Deon Drive. The Traffic Index or ESAL predictions used for the design of the
roadways are based on two-way traffic (50 percent each direction). The pavement sections are
based on a 20-year design life for asphalt concrete pavement, and a 40-year design life for
Portland cement concrete pavement.

For more detailed information on the design criteria, the ITD GE Method information and the
AASHTO Method information please refer to Appendix B of this report.

Alternatives
Two alternatives, flexible and rigid pavement, were selected for evaluation in the LCCA for East
Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road, and Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue. A LCCA was not
performed for East Alameda Road (east of Jefferson Avenue) and the potential new alignment
connecting East Alameda Road and Deon Drive because of the low traffic volume on the roadway.
The alternative ballast sections are presented in Table 4.




                                                                                    June 9, 2010 | Page 11
                                                                                            File No. 4420-059-00
                                                                       ALAMEDA / JEFFERSON INTERSECTION  Pocatello, Idaho




    TABLE 4. ALTERNATIVE BALLAST SECTIONS

                                  Flexible Pavement for East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road
                                  0.45 feet Asphalt Concrete
                                  0.75 feet Aggregate Base

Alternative No. 1
                                  Flexible Pavement for Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue
                                  0.35 feet Asphalt Concrete
                                  0.50 feet Aggregate Base
                                  0.40 feet Granular Subbase
                                  Rigid Pavement for East Alameda Road/Pocatello Creek Road
                                  0.83 feet (10 inches) Portland Cement Concrete
                                  1.00 feet Aggregate Base
Alternative No. 2
                                  Rigid Pavement for Hiline Road/Jefferson Avenue
                                  0.75 feet (9 inches) Portland Cement Concrete
                                  0.50 feet Aggregate Base

Conclusions
The LCCA for each alternative included total initial cost, total cost over the design life, equivalent
uniform annual cost (EUAC), and total net present worth at 4.0 percent interest rate for the project.
Comparative costs for the two alternatives are summarized in Table 5 below.

The LCCA determined that the Total Initial Cost, EUAC, and Total Net Present Worth for the flexible
pavement alternative are lower than the rigid pavement alternative for both roadway locations.
However, the analysis indicates that the rigid pavement alternative provides a lower Total Cost Over
the Design Life. The flexible pavement alternative will allow for a continuous pavement type
between the new intersection and the existing roadways. Based on the LCCA of the pavement
alternatives, Alternative No. 1, the flexible pavement, should be used for this project.

TABLE 5. ALTERNATIVE COST SUMMARY

                                                                       Total Cost                         Total Net Present
                       Pavement                        Total Initial
Alternative                                                            Over Design        EUAC            Worth at 4
                       Type and Location               Cost*
                                                                       Life*                              percent
                       Flexible Pavement - East
                       Alameda Road/Pocatello          $218,300        $461,600           $17,700         $334,600
                       Creek Road
1                      Flexible Pavement - Hiline
                                                       $171,900        $400,900           $14,900         $281,700
                       Road/Jefferson Avenue
                       Rigid Pavement - East
                       Alameda Road/Pocatello          $494,700        $361,179           $25,600         $484,000
                       Creek Road
2                      Rigid Pavement - Hiline
                                                       $400,300        $305,271           $21,000         $397,100
                       Road/Jefferson Avenue
    Notes:
      *Costs do not include costs common to all alternatives.




Page 12 | June 9, 2010 | GeoEngineers, Inc.
File No. 4420-059-00
APPENDIX A
    Figures
  APPENDIX B
Logs of Borings
PROJECT: Alameda Road Intersection                                                                                           BORING LOG NO.           10-KLF-B1
LOCATION: Pocatello, ID                                                                                                      SHEET 1 of 1
     BORING LOCATION: Pocatello Creek - WB right turn lane
     LATITUDE: 42.89254            LONGITUDE: -112.44129
                                                                                                                              ITD PROJECT NO. A0011(11657)
                                                                                                                              KEY NO. 11657

DRILLING CONTRACTOR: Haz-Tech Drilling Inc.
DRILLING EQUIPMENT: BK-51
DRILLING METHOD: Hollow Stem Auger

LOGGED BY: Seth Olsen, E.I.T.
DATE OF BORING: 3-26-10
WATER LEVEL(S)/DATE(S): None observed on 3-26-10.                                                                             KLF PROJECT NO. 110148

                                              SAMPLE
                                                                                                                                                           REMARKS
                                                                               GRAPHIC SYMBOL
                              TYPE - NUMBER


                                               RECOVERY (in.)
            DEPTH




                                                                 SPT RESULTS




                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION                   Stratification lines on this log are based
                                                                 blows/6 in.




                                                                                                                                            on sampling observations and represent
 (meters)




                                                                                                                                            approximate boundaries between soil and
                    (feet)




                                                                                                                                            rock. In-situ, the transition between soil
                                                                                                                                            types may be gradual.
  0                 0                                                                           5" Asphalt

                             BK-3                                                               9" Road Base
                                                                                                (Poorly Graded Gravel with Sand - GP) :
                    1
                                                                                                brown, moist, dense.
0.4
                                                                                                Silty Sand with Gravel (SM):
                                                                                                                                            Lab Test Data at 1.5 ft:
                                                                                                brown, moist, dense.
                    2                                                                                                                       Gravel: 21.0%
                                                                                                                                            Sand: 32.8%
                                                                                                                                            Fines: 46.2%
0.8                          BK-4                                                                                                           LL=NV, PL=NP, PI=NP
                    3                                                                                                                       R-Value: 69
                             SS-1              13               7-13-30

1.2                 4                                                                           increasing coarse gravel


                    5                                                                           very dense below 5 ft
1.6
                             SS-2               7               19-50/6"
                    6
                                                                                                Boring Terminated at 6 ft.
  2
                    7


2.4                 8



                    9
2.8


                    10
3.2

                    11


3.6
                    12
PROJECT: Alameda Road Intersection                                                                               BORING LOG NO.               10-KLF-B2
LOCATION: Pocatello, ID                                                                                          SHEET 1 of 1
     BORING LOCATION: Hiline Rd - NB right turn lane
     LATITUDE: 42.89234            LONGITUDE: -112.44177
                                                                                                                     ITD PROJECT NO. A0011(11657)
                                                                                                                     KEY NO. 11657

DRILLING CONTRACTOR: Haz-Tech Drilling Inc.
DRILLING EQUIPMENT: BK-51
DRILLING METHOD: Hollow Stem Auger

LOGGED BY: Seth Olsen, E.I.T.
DATE OF BORING: 3-26-10
WATER LEVEL(S)/DATE(S): None observed on 3-26-10.                                                                    KLF PROJECT NO. 110148

                                    SAMPLE
                                                                                                                                                   REMARKS
                                                                     GRAPHIC SYMBOL
                    TYPE - NUMBER


                                     RECOVERY (in.)
       DEPTH




                                                       SPT RESULTS




                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION                    Stratification lines on this log are based
                                                                                                                                   on sampling observations and represent
                                                       blows/6 in.




                                                                                                                                   approximate boundaries between soil and
(meters)




                                                                                                                                   rock. In-situ, the transition between soil
           (feet)




                                                                                                                                   types may be gradual.
  0            0                                                                      4" Asphalt
                    BK-1                                                              9" Road Base
                                                                                      (Poorly Graded Gravel with Sand - GP) :
               1                                                                      brown, moist, dense.
0.4                                                                                   Silty Clayey Gravel with Sand (GC-GM):
                                                                                      brown, dry, very dense, coarse gravel.
               2

0.8                                                                                                                                rock found in shoe of split-spoon sampler
               3
                    SS-2                1             40-27-25                                                                     Lab Test Data at 2.5 ft:
                                                                                                                                   Gravel: 54.0%
                    BK-4                                                                                                           Sand: 29.0%
1.2            4                                                                                                                   Fines: 17.0%
                                                                                                                                   LL=22, PL=18, PI=4

               5
1.6

                    SS-3             13               29-24-31
               6

  2                                                                                   Boring Terminated at 6.5 ft.
               7


2.4            8



               9
2.8


               10
3.2

               11


3.6
               12
PROJECT: Alameda Road Intersection                                                                                BORING LOG NO.           10-KLF-B3
LOCATION: Pocatello, ID                                                                                           SHEET 1 of 1
     BORING LOCATION: Jefferson Ave - NB right turn lane
     LATITUDE: 42.89120            LONGITUDE: -112.44151
                                                                                                                   ITD PROJECT NO. A0011(11657)
                                                                                                                   KEY NO. 11657

DRILLING CONTRACTOR: Haz-Tech Drilling Inc.
DRILLING EQUIPMENT: BK-51
DRILLING METHOD: Hollow Stem Auger

LOGGED BY: Seth Olsen, E.I.T.
DATE OF BORING: 3-26-10
WATER LEVEL(S)/DATE(S): None observed on 3-26-10.                                                                  KLF PROJECT NO. 110148

                                    SAMPLE
                                                                                                                                                REMARKS
                                                                    GRAPHIC SYMBOL
                    TYPE - NUMBER


                                     RECOVERY (in.)
       DEPTH




                                                      SPT RESULTS




                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION                   Stratification lines on this log are based
                                                                                                                                 on sampling observations and represent
                                                      blows/6 in.




                                                                                                                                 approximate boundaries between soil and
(meters)




                                                                                                                                 rock. In-situ, the transition between soil
           (feet)




                                                                                                                                 types may be gradual.
  0            0                                                                     3" Asphalt
                    BK-1                                                             6" Road Base
                                                                                     (Poorly Graded Gravel with Sand - GP) :
               1                                                                     brown, moist, dense.
0.4                                                                                  Silt with Sand (ML):
                                                                                     brown, moist, medium stiff, fine sand.
               2                                                                                                                 Lab Test Data at 2 ft:
                                                                                                                                 Gravel: 11.0%
0.8                                                                                                                              Sand: 16.4%
               3                                                                                                                 Fines: 72.6%
                    SS-2                8             2-3-4                                                                      Moisture Content: 11.4%
                                                                                                                                 LL=22, PL=19, PI=3
1.2                                                                                                                              R-Value: 48
               4    BK-5


               5
1.6

                    SS-3                3             1-2-2
               6

  2
               7


2.4            8
                    SS-4                8             2-2-2


               9
2.8                                                                                  Boring Terminated at 9 ft.


               10
3.2

               11


3.6
               12
PROJECT: Alameda Road Intersection                                                                              BORING LOG NO.              10-KLF-B4
LOCATION: Pocatello, ID                                                                                         SHEET 1 of 1
     BORING LOCATION: E. Alameda Rd - WB right turn lane
     LATITUDE: 42.89145            LONGITUDE: -112.44114
                                                                                                                    ITD PROJECT NO. A0011(11657)
                                                                                                                    KEY NO. 11657

DRILLING CONTRACTOR: Haz-Tech Drilling Inc.
DRILLING EQUIPMENT: BK-51
DRILLING METHOD: Hollow Stem Auger

LOGGED BY: Seth Olsen, E.I.T.
DATE OF BORING: 3-26-10
WATER LEVEL(S)/DATE(S): None observed on 3-26-10.                                                                   KLF PROJECT NO. 110148

                                    SAMPLE
                                                                                                                                                 REMARKS
                                                                    GRAPHIC SYMBOL
                    TYPE - NUMBER


                                     RECOVERY (in.)
       DEPTH




                                                      SPT RESULTS




                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION                    Stratification lines on this log are based
                                                                                                                                  on sampling observations and represent
                                                      blows/6 in.




                                                                                                                                  approximate boundaries between soil and
(meters)




                                                                                                                                  rock. In-situ, the transition between soil
           (feet)




                                                                                                                                  types may be gradual.
  0            0                                                                     3.5" Asphalt
                    BK-1                                                             2.5" Road Base
                                                                                     (Poorly Graded Gravel with Sand - GP):
               1                                                                     brown, moist, dense.                         Lab Test Data at 1 ft:
0.4                                                                                  Silty Clay (CL-ML):                          Gravel: 4.0%
                                                                                     brown, moist, medium stiff, fine sand.       Sand: 10.9%
               2                                                                                                                  Fines: 85.1%
                                                                                                                                  Moisture Content: 13.6%
0.8                                                                                                                               LL=24, PL=20, PI=4
                                                                                                                                  R-Value: 48
               3    BK-4
                    SS-2                8             4-4-4

1.2            4



               5
1.6

                    SS-3                6             2-3-4
               6

  2                                                                                  Boring Terminated at 6.5 ft.
               7


2.4            8



               9
2.8


               10
3.2

               11


3.6
               12
                               APPENDIX C
Pavement Design and Life-Cycle Cost Analysis
             APPENDIX D
Laboratory Testing Results
  American Geotechnics
  5260 Chinden Blvd.
  Boise, Idaho 83714
  Phone:(208) 658-8700
  Fax: (208) 658-8703


            Report to:    Kleinfelder Inc.
               Project:   Alameda Road Intersection
          Report Date:    4/1/10
           Project No.:   110148
       ITD Project No.:   A0011(657) Key No.: 11657

                                       Material Information
       Date Sampled:      3/26/10
         Sampled By:      Kleinfelder
       Date Received:     3/29/10
         Date Tested:     3/29 through 4/1/10
                                       Test Results


                                        % Natural % Passing     Liquid   Plastic   Soil
  Lab Number Sample ID      Depth       Moisture    #200         Limit   Index     Type
    10-0146   10-KLF-B1    1.5'-4.0'       ---         46.2      NV       NP        SM
    10-0147   10-KLF-B2    2.5'-5.0'       ---         17.0      22        4       GC-GM
    10-0148   10-KLF-B3    2.0'-6.0'      11.4         72.6      22        19       ML
    10-0149   10-KLF-B4    1.0'-5.0'      13.6         85.1      24        20      CL-ML




                                                 Reviewed By:


American Geotechnics
                                         LIQUID AND PLASTIC LIMITS TEST REPORT
                    60
                                Dashed line indicates the approximate
                                upper limit boundary for natural soils
                    50
                                                                                                                      O   H
                                                                                                                   or
                                                                                                                CH
 PLASTICITY INDEX




                    40


                    30


                    20                                                          L
                                                                            O
                                                                         or
                                                                    CL
                    10
                     7                     CL-ML
                     4                                              ML or OL                                    MH or OH

                                    10                     30                        50               70                            90                  110
                                                                                     LIQUID LIMIT

                    26.2



                    25.2
WATER CONTENT




                    24.2



                    23.2



                    22.2



                    21.2
                           5                                        10                                     20                 25          30            40
                                                                                    NUMBER OF BLOWS

                                   MATERIAL DESCRIPTION                                LL       PL    PI          %<#40              %<#200       USCS
                                    Silty Sand with Gravel (SM)                       NV        NP    NP           61.7                  46.2      SM

                               Silty Clayey Gravel with Sand (GC-GM)                   22       18    4            24.4                  17.0     GC-GM

                                         Silt with Sand (ML)                           22       19    3            78.5                  72.6      ML

                                         Silty Clay (CL-ML)                            24       20    4            88.4                  85.1     CL-ML



Project No. 110148                                 Client: Kleinfelder                                              Remarks:
Project: Alameda Rd. Intersection ITD Project No. A0011(657) Key No. 11657
Alameda Rd. Intersection ITD Project No. A0011(657) Key No. 11657
 Location: 10-KLF-B1; 1.5'-4.0'
       Location: 10-KLF-B2; 2.5'-5.0'
       Location: 10-KLF-B3; 2.0'-6.0'
       Location: 10-KLF-B4; 1.0'-5.0'


                                                   AMERICAN GEOTECHNICS
                                                                Boise, ID                                                          Reviewed by:
                                                                                Particle Size Distribution Report




                                                1-1/2 in.




                                                                     3/4 in.


                                                                                1/2 in.

                                                                                           3/8 in.




                                                                                                                                                    #100

                                                                                                                                                           #140

                                                                                                                                                                  #200
                       6 in.




                                3 in.


                                        2 in.




                                                             1 in.




                                                                                                              #10




                                                                                                                         #20

                                                                                                                                #30

                                                                                                                                      #40



                                                                                                                                              #60
                                                                                                      #4
                100


                 90


                 80


                 70
PERCENT FINER




                 60


                 50


                 40


                 30


                 20


                 10


                  0
                      200 100                                                             10                         1                                     0.1                    0.01              0.001
                                                                                                                    GRAIN SIZE - mm
            % COBBLES                                       % GRAVEL                                                     % SAND                                          % SILT                 % CLAY
                      0.0                                        21.0                                                          32.8                                                 46.2
                      0.0                                        54.0                                                          29.0                                                 17.0
                      0.0                                        11.0                                                          16.4                                                 72.6
                      0.0                                         4.0                                                          10.9                                                 85.1

                      LL                PL                                     D85                    D60           D50                     D30                   D15     D10              Cc      Cu
                      NV                NP                                     7.35                   0.361         0.133
                      22                18                                     19.8                    8.73          5.79                   0.924
                      22                19                                     2.36
                      24                20

                                                                                          MATERIAL DESCRIPTION                                                                    USCS          AASHTO
            Silty Sand with Gravel (SM)                                                                                                                                            SM
            Silty Clayey Gravel with Sand (GC-GM)                                                                                                                                 GC-GM
            Silt with Sand (ML)                                                                                                                                                    ML
            Silty Clay (CL-ML)                                                                                                                                                    CL-ML

 Project No. 110148                                                     Client: Kleinfelder                                                                               Remarks:
 Project: Alameda Rd. Intersection ITD Project No. A0011(657) Key No. 11657
                Location: 10-KLF-B1; 1.5'-4.0'
                Location: 10-KLF-B2; 2.5'-5.0'
                Location: 10-KLF-B3; 2.0'-6.0'
           Location: 10-KLF-B4; 1.0'-5.0'


                                                                     AMERICAN GEOTECHNICS
                                                                                                     Boise, ID                                                                  Reviewed by:
American Geotechnics
5260 Chinden Blvd.
Boise, Idaho 83714
Phone:(208) 658-8700
Fax: (208) 658-8703

                                    Report To:       Kleinfelder
                                       Project:      Alameda Road Intersection                                                  Report Date:   4/1/2010
                                   Project No.:      04B-M783.96                                                              Date Sampled:    3/26/2010
                              ITD Project No.:       A0011(657), Key No. 11657                                                Date Received:   3/29/2010
                                   Sample ID:        B-1 @ 1.5'-4.0'                                                              Tested By:   PC
                              Soil Description:      Silty Sand with Gravel (SM)                                                Lab Number:    10-0146


                                                                                         R-VALUE
                                                                                         IDAHO T-8

                                                          Point 1           Point 2          Point 3
Drainage Description                                        0                 0                0                                      R-Value @ 200 PSI
Dry Density, PCF                                          125.3             124.7            124.2                                    Exudation Pressure
Moisture Content, %                                        10.7              10.5             10.2
Exudation, PSI                                             135               223              390                                                 69
R-Value (Corrected)                                         61                71               76
Expansion, PSI                                             0.00              0.00             0.09


                                                    R-Value             Expansion
                              4.00                                                           9000                                G d ti
                                                                                                                                 Gradation:          11 T
                                                                                                                                                   T-11,
                                                                                                                                            AASHTO T     T-27
                                                                                                                                                           27
                                                                                                                                    Screen      % Passing    % Passing
                                                                                             8000                                   Sizes      As Received   As Tested
                                                                                                                                     4"
                              3.00                                                           7000                                    3"
    Expansion Pressure, PSI




                                                                                                    Exudation Pressure, Lbs




                                                                                                                                     2"           100
                                                                                             6000
                                                                                                                                     1"            99
                                                                                                                                    3/4"          97           100
                              2.00                                                           5000
                                                                                                                                    1/2"          93           96
                                                                                                                                    3/8"          89           92
                                                                                             4000
                                                                                                                                    No. 4          79          81
                              1.00                                                           3000
                                                                                                                                    No. 8
                                                                                                                                   No. 16
                                                                                             2000                                  No. 30
                                                                                                                                   No. 50
                              0.00                                                           1000                                  No. 100
                                     90   80   70    60    50     40   30    20     10   0                                         No. 200
                                                    R-Value (Corrected)


* This report covers only material as represented by this sample and
does not necessarily cover all soils from this layer or source.
                                                                                                Reviewed By:
American Geotechnics
5260 Chinden Blvd.
Boise, Idaho 83714
Phone:(208) 658-8700
Fax: (208) 658-8703

                                   Report To:       Kleinfelder
                                      Project:      Alameda Road Intersection                                                 Report Date:   4/1/2010
                                  Project No.:      04B-M783.96                                                             Date Sampled:    3/26/2010
                             ITD Project No.:       A0011(657), Key No. 11657                                               Date Received:   3/29/2010
                                  Sample ID:        B-3 @ 2.0'-6.0'                                                             Tested By:   PC
                             Soil Description:      Silt with Sand (ML)                                                       Lab Number:    10-0148


                                                                                      R-VALUE
                                                                                          IDAHO T-8

                                                         Point 1           Point 2         Point 3
Drainage Description                                       0                 0               0                                      R-Value @ 200 PSI
Dry Density, PCF                                         118.4             119.3           119.8                                    Exudation Pressure
Moisture Content, %                                       12.3              12.0             11.4
Exudation, PSI                                            115               143              294                                                48
R-Value (Corrected)                                        22                39               60
Expansion, PSI                                            0.00              0.00             0.40


                                                   R-Value             Expansion
                             4.00                                                          9000                                G d ti
                                                                                                                               Gradation:          11 T
                                                                                                                                                 T-11,
                                                                                                                                          AASHTO T     T-27
                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                                                                                  Screen      % Passing    % Passing
                                                                                           8000                                   Sizes      As Received   As Tested
                                                                                                                                   4"
                             3.00                                                          7000                                    3"
   Expansion Pressure, PSI




                                                                                                  Exudation Pressure, Lbs




                                                                                                                                   2"
                                                                                           6000
                                                                                                                                   1"           100
                                                                                                                                  3/4"          99           100
                             2.00                                                          5000
                                                                                                                                  1/2"          97           98
                                                                                                                                  3/8"          95           96
                                                                                           4000
                                                                                                                                  No. 4          89          90
                             1.00                                                          3000
                                                                                                                                  No. 8
                                                                                                                                 No. 16
                                                                                           2000                                  No. 30
                                                                                                                                 No. 50
                             0.00                                                          1000                                  No. 100
                                    90   80   70    60    50     40   30    20   10   0                                          No. 200
                                                   R-Value (Corrected)


* This report covers only material as represented by this sample and
does not necessarily cover all soils from this layer or source.
                                                                                              Reviewed By:
American Geotechnics
5260 Chinden Blvd.
Boise, Idaho 83714
Phone:(208) 658-8700
Fax: (208) 658-8703

                                   Report To:       Kleinfelder
                                      Project:      Alameda Road Intersection                                                 Report Date:   4/1/2010
                                  Project No.:      04B-M783.96                                                             Date Sampled:    3/26/2010
                             ITD Project No.:       A0011(657), Key No. 11657                                               Date Received:   3/29/2010
                                  Sample ID:        B-4 @ 1.0'-5.0'                                                             Tested By:   PC
                             Soil Description:      Silty Clay (CL-ML)                                                        Lab Number:    10-0149


                                                                                      R-VALUE
                                                                                          IDAHO T-8

                                                         Point 1           Point 2         Point 3
Drainage Description                                       0                 0               0                                      R-Value @ 200 PSI
Dry Density, PCF                                         113.0             113.4           114.0                                    Exudation Pressure
Moisture Content, %                                       14.6              14.4             14.2
Exudation, PSI                                            103               151              255                                                48
R-Value (Corrected)                                        37                43               53
Expansion, PSI                                            0.00              0.00             0.06


                                                   R-Value             Expansion
                             4.00                                                          9000                                Gradation:
                                                                                                                               G d ti              11 T
                                                                                                                                                 T-11,
                                                                                                                                          AASHTO T     T-27
                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                                                                                  Screen      % Passing    % Passing
                                                                                           8000                                   Sizes      As Received   As Tested
                                                                                                                                   4"
                             3.00                                                          7000                                    3"
   Expansion Pressure, PSI




                                                                                                  Exudation Pressure, Lbs




                                                                                                                                   2"
                                                                                           6000
                                                                                                                                   1"
                                                                                                                                  3/4"
                             2.00                                                          5000
                                                                                                                                  1/2"          100          100
                                                                                                                                  3/8"          99           99
                                                                                           4000
                                                                                                                                  No. 4          96          96
                             1.00                                                          3000
                                                                                                                                  No. 8
                                                                                                                                 No. 16
                                                                                           2000                                  No. 30
                                                                                                                                 No. 50
                             0.00                                                          1000                                  No. 100
                                    90   80   70    60    50     40   30    20   10   0                                          No. 200
                                                   R-Value (Corrected)


* This report covers only material as represented by this sample and
does not necessarily cover all soils from this layer or source.
                                                                                              Reviewed By:
                                                                                    1525 South David Lane
                                                                                       Boise, Idaho 83705
                                                                                           208.433.8098




August 24, 2010


Parametrix, Inc.
7761 West Riverside Drive, Suite 201
Boise, Idaho 83714

Attention:      Jeremy Robbins, PE

Subject:        Addendum
                Final Abbreviated Phase I Geological Reconnaissance Report
                Alameda/Jefferson Intersection
                Pocatello, Idaho
                ITD Project No. A0011(657); Key No. 11657
                File No. 4420-059-00

This letter is an addendum to the Abbreviated Phase I Geological Reconnaissance Report (dated June 16,
2010) prepared by GeoEngineers for the Alameda/Jefferson Intersection project. The following revisions
should be made to the appropriate sections of the approved report.

220.4 Surface Water
Add the following after the first paragraph:

The location of Pocatello Creek and the Pocatello Creek aqueduct are shown on the attached Figure 1.
The City of Pocatello has indicated that the Pocatello Creek aqueduct should be replaced within the next
10 to 15 years.

Add the following at the end of the section:

The project site is located within a Zone AO and Zone X FEMA floodplain, but the project site is not located
within a regulatory floodway. These regulatory floodplains (Zone AO, X) do not contain a recognized FEMA
floodway.

If needed, estimated base flood elevations could be approximated as the estimated flood elevation at
FEMA cross section A-A for Pocatello Creek upstream of the project site, as shown in the attached Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Figures 2 and 3.
                                                                                                                                                Start of Pocatello Creek Culvert




                                                                                                                         Pocatello Creek Culvert
PEW : MGF




                                                                                                                                         Culvert Ends




                                                                                                                                        Start of New Culvert
 P:\4\4420059\00\CAD\dwg\Addendum 1.dwg\TAB:Figure 1 modified on Aug 24, 2010 - 1:00pm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N

                                                                                                                                                                                                               W         E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                         Notes:
                                                                                         1. The locations of all features shown are approximate.
                                                                                         2. This drawing is for information purposes. It is intended to
                                                                                                                                                                      Pocatello Creek Culvert Locations
                                                                                            assist in showing features discussed in an attached
                                                                                                                                                                  Final Abbreviated Phase 1 Geological Reconnaissance Report
                                                                                            document. GeoEngineers, Inc. can not guarantee the
                                                                                                                                                                                  Alameda/Jefferson Intersection
                                                                                            accuracy and content of electronic files. The master file
                                                                                                                                                                           ITD Project No. A0011(657); Key No. 11657
                                                                                            is stored by GeoEngineers, Inc. and will serve as the
                                                                                            official record of this communication.
                                                                                         3. This figure was originally produced in color.                                                                          Figure 1
                                                                                         Reference: Drawing provided by Parametrix on 8-13-10.
P:\4\4420059\00\CAD\dwg\Addendum 1.dwg\TAB:Figure 2 modified on Aug 24, 2010 - 1:02pm                                    PEW MGF


                       N

                 W           E

                       S




                                                                                                                              FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map
    Notes:
    1. The locations of all features shown are approximate.                                                               Final Abbreviated Phase 1 Geological Reconnaissance Report
    2. This drawing is for information purposes. It is intended to assist in showing features discussed in an attached                    Alameda/Jefferson Intersection
       document. GeoEngineers, Inc. can not guarantee the accuracy and content of electronic files. The master file is             ITD Project No. A0011(657); Key No. 11657
       stored by GeoEngineers, Inc. and will serve as the official record of this communication.
    3. This figure was originally produced in color.
    Reference: Drawing from Flood Insurance Rate Map, Pocatello City/Bannock County, Idaho, No. 16005C0239D,
                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 2
    2009, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
P:\4\4420059\00\CAD\dwg\Addendum 1.dwg\TAB:Figure 3 modified on Aug 24, 2010 - 1:03pm                                    PEW MGF


                       N

                 W           E

                       S




                                                                                                                              FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map
    Notes:
    1. The locations of all features shown are approximate.                                                               Final Abbreviated Phase 1 Geological Reconnaissance Report
    2. This drawing is for information purposes. It is intended to assist in showing features discussed in an attached                    Alameda/Jefferson Intersection
       document. GeoEngineers, Inc. can not guarantee the accuracy and content of electronic files. The master file is             ITD Project No. A0011(657); Key No. 11657
       stored by GeoEngineers, Inc. and will serve as the official record of this communication.
    3. This figure was originally produced in color.
    Reference: Drawing from Flood Insurance Rate Map, Pocatello City/Bannock County, Idaho, No. 16005C0239D,
                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 3
    2009, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX N  

 
