                                   Disclaimer



The contents of this report reflect the views of the author(s), who is (are)
responsible for the facts and accuracy of the data presented herein. The contents
do not necessarily reflect the official views of the Colorado Department of
Transportation or the Federal Highway Administration. This report does not
constitute a standard, specification, or regulation.
                                                                                             Technical Report Documentation Page
1. Report No.                              2. Government Accession No.                      3. Recipient's Catalog No.
CDOT-2007-11
4. Title and Subtitle                                                                       5. Report Date
ANALYSIS OF BICYCLE-RELATED AND PEDESTRIAN-RELATED                                          June 2007
ROADWAY CRASHES
                                                                                            6. Performing Organization Code


7. Author(s)                                                                                8. Performing Organization Report No.
Michael P. Gill, Jr. P.E.                                                                   CDOT-2007-11
9. Performing Organization Name and Address                                                 10. Work Unit No. (TRAIS)
Carter-Burgess
707 17th Street, Suite 2300                                                                 11. Contract or Grant No.
Denver, CO 80205-5204                                                                       97.30
12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address                                                      13. Type of Report and Period Covered
Colorado Department of Transportation - Research                                            Final Report
4201 E. Arkansas Ave.
Denver, CO 80222
                                                                                            14. Sponsoring Agency Code

15. Supplementary Notes
Prepared in cooperation with the US Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration


16. Abstract
The premise of this study is that crashes involving bicyclists and pedestrians are similar in characteristics, including type and
cause. Using available data and existing analysis tools, the study conducted a corridor-specific approach along state
highways within local and/or county jurisdictional boundaries to identify potential trends based on patterns in crash types
and causes. For instance, do the majority of pedestrian crashes along a corridor occur at mid-block locations; at or near
intersections that involve a pedestrian hit by a turning vehicle; or involve a pedestrian hit from behind while walking with
traffic along a roadway shoulder (paved or unpaved) and not on a sidewalk? Do most bicycle crashes involve a motorist
overtaking a bicyclist, a motorist turning or merging into the path of a bicyclist, or a bicyclist turning or merging into the
path of a motorist?

By identifying common causal factors of bicycle and pedestrian crashes, this study should help planning and design efforts
to provide safer intersections and corridors for use by pedestrians and bicyclists. The study developed recommendations to
improve statewide, county and local data recording of bicycle and pedestrian crash factors.

Implementation:
The results of this study will help planners to assess similarities among crashes involving bicyclists and pedestrians, assist
the 402 Safety Program by identifying bicycle and pedestrian education and outreach needs and audiences, and provide
information to help in development of programs to reduce the frequency and severity of crashes involving bicyclists and
pedestrians.



17. Keywords                                                            18. Distribution Statement
pedestrian safety, bicycle safety, bicycle facilities,                  No restrictions. This document is available to the public
crosswalks, intersections, accidents                                    through the National Technical Information Service
                                                                        5825 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161


19. Security Classif. (of this report)          20. Security Classif. (of this page)                 21. No. of Pages    22. Price
           None                                           None                                                181

Form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72)                 Reproduction of completed page authorized
                                                    Table of Contents

I.       Introduction.............................................................................................................. 1
II.      Literature Review .................................................................................................... 3
     1. A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and
        Abroad........................................................................................................................ 4
     2. Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on Red
        to Promote Pedestrian Safety ..................................................................................... 6
     3. Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30 Cities.................... 7
     4. Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections:
        Results of a Field Evaluation ................................................................................... 10
     5. Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings ......................................... 11
     6. Pedestrian Safety through a Raised Median and Redesigned
        Intersections ............................................................................................................. 12
III. Selection of Evaluation Sites ................................................................................. 14
IV. Site Data Collection................................................................................................ 16
     Geometric Design and Traffic Control Data................................................................. 16
     Traffic Volume Data..................................................................................................... 18
     Pedestrian-Related and Bicycle-Related Crash Data ................................................... 18
V.       Data Analysis.......................................................................................................... 20
VI. Results and Conclusions ........................................................................................ 22
     Descriptive Statistics .................................................................................................... 22
     When Do Bike/Pedestrians Collision Occur? ............................................................... 22
     Geometric Findings....................................................................................................... 23
     Corridor Relationships.................................................................................................. 34
VII Recommendations .................................................................................................. 38
Glossary ........................................................................................................................... 41

Appendix
 Appendix A: References
     Appendix B: Summary of Selected Papers
     Appendix C: Intersection Data Collection Form
     Appendix D: Design Guidance Tool


                                                                    i
  Appendix E: Statistical Analysis Datasheets
  Appendix F: Turning Movement Datasheets


List of Figures
Figure 1: Intersection Data Collection Form .................................................................... 17
Figure 2: Crashes by Time of Day.................................................................................... 23
Figure 3: Additional Crashes per Approach ..................................................................... 30
Figure 4: Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crashes: Year 2001 through 2005 ... 34
Figure 5: Average Number of Crashes per Intersection: Year 2001 through 2005 ......... 35


List of Tables
Table 1: Example of Facilities Improvements to Enhance Pedestrian Safety .................... 9
Table 2: Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes Part of an Identified Corridor .. 14
Table 3: Additional Study Intersections ........................................................................... 15
Table 4: On Street Vs. Off Street Bike Facilities.............................................................. 37




                                                          ii
I.     INTRODUCTION

This report presents the results from the Phase II analysis of Bicycle-Related and
Pedestrian-Related Roadway Crashes. Phase I of this research project focused on
gathering existing crash data into PBCAT database (including correcting errors found on
crash reports), geo-referencing the crashes, and high level statistical analysis of the data
to determine if there were patterns worth further study. Phase I analysis indicated that if
an intersection has a relatively high cyclist or pedestrian crash frequency, it will likely
have a higher than normal proportion of crashes involving motorists making right-turns.
This suggested that reducing the occurrence of crashes involving right-turns may improve
the safety at the at-grade intersections. The objective of the Phase II research was to
perform a geometric analysis of at-grade intersections to determine any relationships
between intersection geometry and the pattern of crashes occurring.


The representatives of the participating agencies met on several occasions during Phase I
and Phase II of the study to assist in guiding the research and discuss the outcomes.
Based on the review of the Phase I study it was decided to concentrate on the top 25 crash
intersections having a statistically significant difference in respect to right-turning vehicle
crashes from the database as a whole. In addition, the panel identified a number of
corridors ­ Folsom Street, Canyon Boulevard, Arapahoe Road, and Pearl Street ­ that
were studied regardless of crash counts to determine what is working and what is not
working along a continuous facility.


Geometric design, traffic volumes, and traffic control data were collected at the top 25
crash intersections as well as at 9 comparison intersections chosen to complement the
high crash locations along the corridors listed above. The geometric data and traffic
control data at these intersections were collected in February and March 2007 by visiting
each intersection. Intersection turning movement counts, including pedestrian volumes,
were collected in April 2007.


                                              1
This report presents the analysis methodology and evaluation approaches used to evaluate
the geometric data and crash data. Section 2 of the report presents a review of the safety
literature concerning intersection design improvements. Section 3 describes the selection
of the evaluation sites. The collection of data concerning those evaluation sites is
described in section 4. Section 5 presents the evaluation plan for the study, while section
6 presents and interprets the evaluation results. The conclusions and recommendations of
the study are presented in section 7.


Appendix A summarizes a list of published literature concerning bicycle and pedestrian
safety improvements at at-grade intersections.


Appendix B summarizes selected relevant research papers/reports that were not discussed
in section 2.


Appendix C presents the "Intersection Data Collection Form" and the summary of
abbreviations used to collect the geometric design and traffic control data in the field.


Appendix D presents a design tool based on the project findings and information from
other research projects. The matrix provided serves as a reference document to determine
the potential engineering countermeasures to reduce the risk of urban pedestrian and
bicycle related crashes.


Appendix E presents the detailed results of all statistical evaluations performed in the
research; this appendix includes all evaluation results that are discussed in section 6 of
the report, as well as other evaluations whose results were not statistically significant and
were, therefore, not used.


Appendix F presents the traffic counts data gathered for this study.


                                              2
II.      LITERATURE REVIEW

This section summarizes the research on pedestrian safety in the United States focusing
on crash characteristics and safety improvements/effects of various roadway features and
traffic control devices. This section also summarizes other research documenting the
effects of innovative engineering treatments on pedestrian safety. A list of references is
located in Appendix A. Appendix B includes a short summary of other selected relevant
reports not summarized here.


When reviewing existing research papers, the project team identified six reports which
were especially pertinent to this study. These six reports are:


      1. A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and Abroad. Office
         of Safety Research and Development, U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal
         Highway Administration, Report # FHWA-RD-03-042, McLean, VA, 2004.


      2. Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on Red to Promote
         Pedestrian Safety. Richard A. Retting, Marsha S. Nitzberg, et al. ITE Journal,
         Vol. 72, No. 1, pp. 32-36, Washington, D.C., 2002.


      3. Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30 Cities. Charles V.
         Zegeer, Carol Tan Esse, J. Richard Stewart, Herman F. Huang, and Peter
         Lagerwey. ITE Journal, Vol. 74, No. 1, pp. 34-41, Washington, D.C., 2004.


      4. Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections: Results of a
         Field Evaluation. Richard A. Retting and Ron Van Houten. ITE Journal,
         Vol. 54, No. 9, pp. 47-49, Washington, D.C., 2000.




                                              3
                   5. Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings. NCHRP Report 562,
                       Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2006.


                   6. Pedestrian Safety Through a Raised Median and Redesigned Intersections. King, M. In
                       Transportation Research Record 1828, pp. 56-66, Transportation Research Board, 2003.


These reports are summarized below:


1.      A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and
        Abroad

This document summarized research on pedestrian safety in the United States with a
focus on crash characteristics and the safety effects of various roadway features and
traffic control devices. Pedestrian education considerations and enforcement programs
were also discussed. The report also contains a summary of main findings. The findings
relevant to this study are listed below:


        In terms of marked versus unmarked crosswalks at uncontrolled intersections (i.e.,
        no stop sign or traffic signal on the approach roadway) on a two lane road, the
        presence of a marked crosswalk alone is associated with no difference in
        pedestrian crash rate compared to an unmarked crosswalk. On multilane roads
        with traffic volumes above 12,000 vehicles per day, having a marked crosswalk
        alone (without other substantial improvements) is associated with a higher
        pedestrian crash rate (after controlling for other site factors) compared to an
        unmarked crosswalk. More substantial improvements are recommended to
        provide for safer pedestrian crossings at such locations, such as adding traffic
        signals (with pedestrian signals) when warranted, provide raised medians, and
        installing speed-reducing measures.



                                                            4
   Providing raised medians on multilane roads can substantially reduce pedestrian
   crash risk (and can also make it easier to cross the street).


   There is evidence that substantially improved nighttime lighting can enhance
   pedestrian safety in certain situations.


   At intersections with traffic signals, adding a WALK/DON'T WALK signal with
   a standard timing scheme (i.e., motorists move parallel to pedestrians and may
   turn right or left on a green light across pedestrian's path) has no significant effect
   on pedestrian crashes. Providing an exclusive pedestrian interval (i.e., motorists
   are stopped in all directions during the same interval each cycle while pedestrians
   cross in any direction) reduces pedestrian collisions by 50 percent.


   Allowing vehicles to make a right-turn-on-red (RTOR) maneuver appears to
   result in a small but clear safety problem for pedestrians. In fact, 21 percent of
   motorists violate NO TURN ON RED (NTOR) signs if given the opportunity, and
   23 percent of RTOR violations result in a conflict with the pedestrian.
   Countermeasures that have been effective in reducing pedestrian risks related
   RTOR include illuminated NTOR signs, offset stop bars at intersections where
   RTOR is allowed (i.e., motorists are more likely to make a full stop often),
   variations in NTOR signs, and others.


   Various pedestrian and motorist warning signs have been found to reduce vehicle
   speeds or conflicts between pedestrian and motorists. These devices include the
   "strong yellow green" pedestrian warning sign, YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS
   WHEN TURNING sign, PEDESTRIANS WATCH FOR TURNING VEHICLES
   sign, three section WALK WITH CARE signal head, a DON'T START display to
   replace the flashing DON'T WALK display, and others.



                                          5
        Curb medians provide a safer environment for pedestrians compared with two-
        way, left-turn lanes (TWLTLs), while undivided highways have the highest crash
        risk for pedestrians in TWLTL settings.


2.      Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on
        Red to Promote Pedestrian Safety

This study was conducted in Arlington County, VA. A group of 15 signalized
intersections was selected from locations where the Arlington Department of Public
Works was considering instituting pedestrian safety measures, partly due to citizen
complaints about the impacts of right turn on red (RTOR) on pedestrians. The selected
intersections were randomly assigned into three groups: control, no RTOR during
specific hours (7.00AM - 7.00PM, Monday thru Friday), and no RTOR when pedestrians
are present.




                                            6
At each site where RTOR was restricted, two signs were posted ­ one was mounted on a
post near the stop sign on the right-hand side of the street, and a second sign was
mounted overhead adjacent to the traffic signal indication. No other changes were made
at these intersections. Each study site was one leg of intersection. Each study site was
observed fro 10 hours both before and after installation of "no turn on red" signs.
Observations were limited to weekdays between the hours of 8 am and 7 pm.


The study results indicated that traffic signs prohibiting RTOR during specific hours were
very effective at increasing driver compliance with stop lines, reducing the number of
pedestrians yielding the right of way to turning vehicles. Signs giving drivers discretion
to turn right on red based on whether pedestrians are present were not found to be very
effective. Stutts et al. reported that nearly 80 percent of intersection crashes involving
pedestrians and turning vehicles occurred between 6 am and 6 pm and 95 percent
occurred between 6 am and 10pm, RTOR restrictions and other countermeasures can help
prevent pedestrian crashes at intersections.


3.     Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30
       Cities

The purpose of the study was to determine whether marked crosswalks at uncontrolled
locations were safer than unmarked crosswalks under various traffic and roadway
conditions and to provide recommendations on how to provide safer crossings for
pedestrians. In total, 1,000 marked crosswalk sites and 1,000 matched unmarked
comparison sites in 30 major cities across the United States were selected for analysis.


Detailed information was collected at each of the 2,000 sites, including pedestrian crash
history, estimates of daily pedestrian volumes, average daily traffic volume (ADT),
number of lanes, speed limit, area type, median type, condition and type of crosswalk
marking patterns, location type (mid-block versus intersection), and other site

                                               7
characteristics. Crosswalk marking patterns found at the study sites included standard
(parallel lines), solid (painted within the parallel lines), dashed lines, zebra, ladder, and
continental patterns, as illustrated in MUTCD. Very few of the marked crosswalks had
any type of supplemental pedestrian warning signs, traffic calming measures, or special
treatments. Poisson modeling and negative binomial regression were used in the data
analysis. Using these analysis techniques allowed for determining statistically valid
safety relationships. A total of 229 pedestrian crashes at the 2,000 crossing sites were
evaluated.


The analysis revealed that traffic and roadway factors related to a greater frequency of
pedestrian crashes included higher pedestrian volumes, higher ADT, and a greater
number of lanes. The presence of a raised median was associated with a significantly
lower pedestrian crash rate at multi-lane sites with both marked and unmarked
crosswalks. Also, on multi-lane roads, medians that were painted (but not raised) and
center two-way-left-turn lanes did not offer significant safety benefits to pedestrians
compared to multi-lane roads with no medians at all.


Factors having no significant effect on pedestrian crash rate included area type (such as
residential or downtown), location type (intersection versus midblock), speed limit,
traffic operation (one-way or two-way), condition of crosswalk marking, and crosswalk
marking pattern. In terms of speed and crash severity, the analysis showed that speed
limits of 35mph and greater were associated with a higher percentage of fatal crashes that
sites having lower speed limits.


The results of the study indicate that there were no significant differences in crash rates
between marked and unmarked crosswalks on two lane roads, multi-lane roads with an
ADT less than 12,000, and multi-lane roads with an ADT less than 15,000 and raised
medians. Marked crosswalks on multi-lane roads with an ADT greater than 12,000 and
without raised medians, and marked crosswalks with an ADT greater than 15,000 with

                                             8
raised medians had significantly higher pedestrian crash rates than locations with
unmarked crossings.


          Table 1: Example of Facilities Improvements to Enhance Pedestrian Safety




             Source: Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30
             Cities. Charles V. Zegeer, Carol Tan Esse, J. Richard Stewart, Herman F.
             Huang, and Peter Lagerwey. ITE Journal, Washington, D.C., January
             2004.



                                               9
4.     Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections:
       Results of a Field Evaluation

The purpose of this study was to investigate driver compliance with advance stop lines at
signalized intersections and potential safety benefits from their use. A before and after
design study was conducted at four signalized crosswalks in the city of St. Petersburg,
FL, USA. During the baseline study the stop lines were located 4 feet back from the
crosswalks. The stop lines at study sites were then removed, and experimental advanced
stop lines were installed 20 feet from the crosswalks. Data collection for the baseline and
experimental periods were done for 31 and 46 hours, respectively, during which times the
numbers of drivers observed were 2,024 and 3,113, respectively.


Data such as driver compliance with stop sign locations, vehicle encroachment into
crosswalks, vehicle path (turning left, right or proceeding through) and elapsed time for
the front wheels of the lead vehicle to enter the intersection after onset of the green signal
was collected. Analysis of driver compliance with stop sign was limited to through
vehicles because turning vehicles, especially those turning right or left on red, are more
likely to stop past marked stop lines in order to view traffic on the cross streets. Video
cameras were deployed to compute the elapsed time between the start of the green signal
phase and the lead vehicle entering the intersection.


The results indicated that overall 57 percent of drivers complied with advance stop lines.
Overall, the percentage of drivers who stopped in the crosswalks declined from 25
percent to 7 percent after installation of advance stop lines. For each site and for the four
sites combined, changes after intervention were found to be statistically significant.
Safety benefits of advanced stop lines were also discussed in the paper. The authors
suggested that advanced stop lines may prove useful in preventing multiple threat
collisions, which involves a pedestrian being struck by a vehicle in a cross walk on a
multiple road after another vehicle has yielded to the pedestrian, thereby reducing the


                                             10
sight distance of the pedestrian and motorists approaching the crosswalk. Advanced stop
signs also may reduce the risk of pedestrian crashes involving left-turning vehicles.
Additional safety benefits may include potential reduction in the risk of right-angle
collisions caused by red-light running, due to the increase in elapsed time for lead
vehicles to enter the intersection after onset of green signals.


5.     Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings

The study had two main objectives. First, to recommend selected engineering treatments
to improve safety for pedestrians crossing high volume, high speed roadways at
unsignalized intersections, in particular those served by public transportation, and second,
to recommend modifications to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways (MUTCD) pedestrian traffic signal warrant. Phase I of the research
focused on reviewing the literature, conducting surveys, and evaluating the state of the
practice, and concluded with the development of a study approach for phase II to
accomplish the research project objectives.


Based on the findings of the study, 3.5 ft/sec walking speed for the general population
and 3.0 ft/sec walking speed for older pedestrians was recommended. The research team
recommended the addition of red signal or beacon devices to the engineer's alternative
for pedestrian crossings. The study results indicated that all red signal or beacon devices
prompted high levels of motorist compliance on high volume, high speed streets,
however, only a traffic signal is currently recognized in the MUTCD, and current
pedestrian signal warrant is very difficult to meet. The research team recommended the
inclusion of a new type of highway traffic signal (a "pedestrian beacon") in the MUTCD.


The study outlined a procedure to determine the intersection safety improvements. Two
worksheets were provided ­ one for speeds 35 mph or less and the other for speeds
exceeding 35 mph with a population less than 10,000 where a transit stop exists. The first


                                              11
step would be select appropriate worksheet based on the 85th percentile speed on the
major street. The second step would be to check the minimum pedestrian volume. If the
pedestrian volume is fewer than 20 pedestrians per hour, then geometric improvements
such as traffic calming, median refuge islands and curb extensions shall be considered
rather than signs, signals, or markings. Third step would be to check if the pedestrian
volumes satisfy the pedestrian signal warrant. The report also provided a synopsis of
selected pedestrian crossing treatments more commonly being used in the United States.
The treatments include advance signing, advance stop line and signing, median refuge
islands, raised crosswalks, curb extension, roadway narrowing, markings and crossing
signs, in-street pedestrian crossing signs, high visibility signs and markings, in-roadway
warning lights, pedestrian crossing flags, overhead flashing amber beacons, pedestrian
crosswalk signal, half signal, HAWK beacon signal, pedestrian beacon, and traffic signal.


6.     Pedestrian Safety through a Raised Median and Redesigned
       Intersections

This paper documented the effect of a raised median, signalized and redesigned
intersections, curbs, and sidewalks on vehicle speed, pedestrian exposure risk, driver
predictability, and vehicle volume along a four lane suburban roadway in central New
Jersey. The analysis used both qualitative tools (speed and volume counts, timing runs)
and qualitative methods (pedestrian tracking, video, before-after photography). Together,
before-after data and before-after imaging provided a clear picture of the
benefits/limitations of the project.


Site data was collected in Plainsboro Township (near Princeton, New Jersey) where
approximately 3,200 feet long section of Plainsboro Road, a four lane suburban roadway
with 4 major intersections at about 1,000 feet intervals, was reconstructed. The
reconstruction consisted of redesign of the two interior intersections with signals,
intersection-only bike lanes, stop lines, textured crosswalks, and removal of two free


                                           12
right-turn lanes, a 7.5 foot wide, 900 foot long raised median between the two interior
intersections, narrower roadway width, timing the signal to maintain a speed of 45 mph,
curb, bike lanes, street trees, sidewalks, and bus shelters along the corridor. The before-
after data analysis was conducted and following results were obtained:


   1. Vehicle speeds recorded by an automatic traffic recorder (ATR) placed at the
       median showed that the hourly average and 85th percentile speed fell by 2 to 3
       mph due to reduction in lane width from 12 feet to 10.5 feet.


   2. Mid-block pedestrian exposure risk is the time which a person is exposed to on-
       coming traffic while crossing the street. A measure of exposure risk is the width
       of traveled way within the edge line of curbs. Plainsboro Road was approximately
       58 feet wide; with the raised median the roadway was transformed into two 21
       feet wide streets, lowering the mid-block pedestrian exposure risk by 28%.


   3. An overall measure of roadway safety is driver predictability. Examining the
       physical characteristics of the road and making a qualitative judgment regarding
       the ability of pedestrians, cyclists, and other motorists to predict the speed and
       actions of driver can assess driver predictability. The addition of a median and
       curbs increased driver predictability by keeping the vehicles on the roadway and
       in their half of the roadway. Addition of signals also created gaps in the traffic
       streams, which makes crossing mid-block easier. Striped bike lanes and stop lines
       at the intersection helped better organize the area.


   4. No impact on traffic volumes was observed consistent with the nature of
       improvements which were not designed to affect traffic volumes.




                                             13
III.   SELECTION OF EVALUATION SITES

From the Phase I work, the project team identified the top 25 crash intersections (Table
2) as having a statistically significant difference in respect to right-turning vehicle crashes
from the database as a whole. This indicated that there may be features of these specific
intersections that will point to generalized mitigation strategies. Hence, these
intersections were selected for further evaluation.

                                             Table 2:
                          Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes
                                  Part of an Identified Corridor

                          Folsom & Arapahoe                     X
                          Baseline Rd & 29th                    X
                          Broadway & Baseline                   X
                          Arapahoe & 30th                       X
                          Baseline & 30th                       X
                          Spruce & Broadway                     X
                          30th & Walnut
                          Broadway & 18th                       X
                          Pearl & 28th                          X
                          Colorado & Regent
                          Regent & Broadway                     X
                          Pleasant & Broadway                   X
                          Table Mesa & Broadway                 X
                          Valmont & 30th
                          Euclid & Broadway                     X
                          Canyon E/B north side & 14th          X
                          Arapahoe & 33rd                       X
                          17th & Athens
                          Arapahoe & 17th                       X
                          Conestoga & Arapahoe                  X
                          28th & Arapahoe                       X
                          Folsom & Canyon                       X
                          28th & Iris
                          University & Broadway                 X
                          28th & Walnut




In addition, at the request of the City of Boulder representatives on the Study team 9
more intersections (Table 3) were selected for their physical location within identified

                                              14
Bike or pedestrian corridors. The idea was to include locations where the intersection
was working well and to enhance the ability to compare corridor wide features instead of
only intersection features. The study panel identified the following corridors for this
consideration: ­ Folsom Street, Canyon Boulevard, Arapahoe Road, and Pearl Street ­
that were studied regardless of crash counts to determine what is working and what is not
working on a continuous facility with regard to pedestrian-related and bike-related
crashes.


                                          Table 3:
                               Additional Study Intersections

                            WB US 36 & Baseline
                            Canyon & 28th
                            Pearl & Folsom
                            Pearl & 30th
                            Colorado & 28th
                            Canyon & 26th
                            Broadway & 27th Way
                            Arapahoe &
                            Commerce/Eisenhower
                            Baseline & Mohawk
                            Baseline & Foothills




                                            15
IV.     SITE DATA COLLECTION

This section of the report documents the data collection performed at the selected study
intersections. The type of data collected included geometric design and traffic control
data, traffic volumes, and crash records. Each type of data is discussed below:


Geometric Design and Traffic Control Data

Geometric design data and traffic control features were collected in February and March
2007 by visiting each study intersection. The study intersections were visited by a
research team member along with the University of Colorado at Denver graduate students
who helped record the intersection data.


An "Intersection Data Collection Form" (Figure 1) was prepared to standardize the data
collection activity. The outline of the form followed the guidelines suggested by Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA) in its report Safety Effectiveness of Intersection Left
and Right-turn Lanes FHWA-RD-02-089 (Summary included on appendix page B-2 of
this report). The form was designed to document the observed site conditions and
operations, geometric features, traffic control data and presence or absence of any
mitigation measures to improve pedestrian safety. A sketch of a generic intersection was
also included on the form. The preliminary form along with the abbreviations being used
to record the data was forwarded to the study team for review. The revised Intersection
Data Collection Form was then used to record the intersection geometric design and
traffic control data.


Civil Engineering graduate students from the University of Colorado at Denver helped to
collect the intersection data. A training session was conducted for participating graduate
students to train them in data collection and recording process. Various fields on the
intersection data collection form and their relevance was explained to the graduate


                                            16
Figure 1: Intersection Data Collection Form




                    17
students. The collected data at each intersection was verified to check for any errors. The
graduate students were monitored throughout the data collection process. A total of 34
intersection data were recorded including the top 25 intersections with most crashes
(identified in Phase I) and the 9 corridor intersections with fewer crashes in the last five
years.


Traffic Volume Data

Traffic volume data were collected at ten of the study intersections. The following data
set was obtained at each intersection: (Refer Appendix E)


         Major and Minor Road ADTs within the study area for year 2005.


         Intersection turning movement counts for morning and evening peak periods.
         (Including pedestrian counts)


Pedestrian-Related and Bicycle-Related Crash Data

The pedestrian-related and bicycle related crash data for the five year period (20r1
through 2005) were obtained from the City of Boulder and entered in the modified
PBCAT database to create a comprehensive crash database during the Phase I of this
study. As mentioned in Phase I report, the crash database was prepared by coding the
accident reports received from the City of Boulder. Hence, the accuracy of the database
depended upon the accuracy of information available in the accident reports. While
reviewing and coding the accidents, a number of important parameters were found
missing due to lack of consistency in describing the crash or drawing the crash diagram.
Hence, the Phase I report provided a list of important parameters that would be helpful to
have explicitly recorded on each crash report in order to improve the accuracy of the data
collected in crash reports.


                                            18
For the Phase II analysis, the crash data for top 25 intersections and another 9 comparison
intersections were extracted from the comprehensive PBCAT database. In some cases,
the computerized data were supplemented with collision diagrams prepared by manual or
computer means to better understand the crash record at a particular intersection.




                                            19
V.     DATA ANALYSIS

The geometric field data collected as part of phase II of this study was incorporated into
intersection specific data tables. The crash specific data entered in the PBCAT database
(Phase I) was merged with the intersection data to create spreadsheets or other reports
that could be used to allow for flexible analysis of the combined data. One of the more
fruitful analyses involved comparing the difference in proportions of the various vehicle
maneuvers with the presence or absence of geometric features.


As described in the above section, vehicle and pedestrian counts were taken at selected
study intersections. While this information was useful in terms of describing the amount
of vehicle and non-motorized use of the studied intersections, within this specific study, it
was difficult to obtain significant results based on the vehicle, pedestrian, and cyclist
volumes. The data is provided in the database compiled as part of this study and should
prove useful in future studies.


The crashes were grouped by approach to an intersection. Each approach could have
different geometric features from the number and type of approach lanes to left-turn
signal control (permitted, protected/permitted, protected only) to physical features such as
center medians and right-turn bypass islands, In these analyses, the geometric features
were associated with the vehicle approach. It was not distinguished where the vehicle
struck the pedestrian or cyclist. The vehicle encounters pedestrian and cyclists paths both
entering the intersection and then again leaving the intersection. If, for example, a
crosswalk were marked on the vehicle's entering leg and not on the exiting leg, the
analysis considered the vehicle to be on an approach with a marked crosswalk, even if the
actual collision occurred in the unmarked, exiting leg of the intersection. If desired, the
information in the database could be used to determine exiting leg features encountered
in addition to the approach leg features. For the purposes of this study, the features




                                             20
associated with the approach leg were assumed to have a greater influence on the nature
of pedestrian and bicycle related crashes.


Because of the structure of the data tables, this database has an enormous wealth of
information that can continue to be used by CDOT, and the City of Boulder to continue
to add to the available data as well as test other relationships. The ultimate goal of this
study was to generate a preliminary guidance for the use of various features to enhance
the safety of non-motorized users of the right of way. This design tool is provided as
Appendix D.


Unless otherwise noted, the level of significance used to test the strength of the
correlations described in the Results and Conclusions section was a 90% confidence
interval.




                                             21
VI.    RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS

Descriptive Statistics

In terms of raw numbers, the following results were obtained for the 34 studied
intersections


       Out of 208 accidents at top 25 intersections, nearly 70% of the crashes involved
       collision with a bicycle. 30% of the crashes involved collision with pedestrians.
       Of the pedestrian crashes, just over 10% involved school age children. This
       amounts to 3% of the total number of crashes reported.


       Over half of those 208 accidents occurred at intersection locations (59%), while
       17% occurred at a driveway access followed by non-intersection urban locations
       where 11% crashes occurred.


       Most of the crashes at these locations occurred on a leveled roadway (77%),
       during daylight (77%), when the road was dry (89%), with no adverse weather
       condition (89%).


When Do Bike/Pedestrians Collision Occur?

Time of Day: Collisions can occur at any time and are considered as random events, but
there are trends involving the time of occurrence. Bicycle and pedestrian collisions
occurred in the last five years along Broadway Street, Arapahoe Road, Canyon
Boulevard, Pearl Street, Folsom Street, and Baseline Road corridors by time of day are
shown in the graph below.




                                          22
                                             Figure 2: Crashes by Time of Day


                                             Crashes by Time of Day

                     120
                                                     108
                     100                                         100
 Number of Crashes




                     80

                     60                 61                                 63


                     40        40

                     20
                                                                                     13      13
                                                                                                       4
                       0
                           6-9 AM   9 AM -     Noon - 3    3-6 PM      6-9 PM    9 PM - Midnight   3-6 AM
                                    Noon         PM                             Midnight - 3 AM
                                                            Time of Day




Geometric Findings

Not surprisingly, many of the relationships between crash patterns and vehicle maneuvers
were statistically insignificant. However, because of the number of data points collected
and the number of approaches (the 34 intersection had 96 approaches with related
crashes) used in the study, some useful statistically significant patterns were discovered.
These relationships were used in developing the design guidance tool provided as an
appendix to this report as well as to point out topics for future studies.




                                                            23
   Exclusive Right-turn Lanes


      o The data analyzed showed that the number of bicycle and pedestrian
          crashes involving right-turn vehicle maneuvers was significantly higher at
          locations where exclusive turn lanes existed and bypass islands did not
          exist.


          Where channelizing islands did exist, both with and without exclusive
          right-turn lanes, there was no significant difference in the proportion of
          right-turn related crashes.


      o Conclusion ­ Where exclusive right-turn lanes exist, right-turn
          channelizing islands should be considered.           This result is somewhat
          counter-intuitive and contrary to results of other studies involving free
          right-turns. Most of the approaches included in this study were not free
          right-turns. The right-turning vehicles typically had no acceleration lane
          and were required to yield to cross traffic, slowing the vehicles.


          A possible explanation for this result is that where right-turn channelizing
          islands exist, the conflicts to the right-turning driver were dealt with
          separately. When entering the channelizing island area, the driver could
          possibly give more attention to the pedestrian and bicycle traffic before
          approaching    the    yield   line   and   looking    for   vehicle   conflicts.


          Where no channelizing island existed, vehicles conceivably approach the
          stop bar, look to their left for cross traffic and do not recheck for
          pedestrians or bicyclists before completing their right-turn maneuver.


          Another possibility explaining the difference could be the City of


                                         24
          Boulder's use of raised crossings to a channelizing island. While the
          relationship between raised and unraised crossings was found to be
          insignificant (see results described in insignificant relationships below)
          they could be influencing this result.


   Shared Right-turn Lanes


      o In a comparison similar to the previously described right turn island
          analysis, the use of a shared right-turn lane was compared to exclusive
          right-turn lanes. In this analysis, shared lanes had a significantly lower
          proportion of right-turn crashes than locations where exclusive right-turn
          lanes were present.      This result is consistent with the island results
          described above and help to indicate that where exclusive right-turn lanes
          are provided, right-turn channelizing islands should also be considered.
          Based on the results of previous research, this may not be the case when
          an acceleration lane for the right-turning vehicles is provided.


      o Conclusion ­ Shared right-turn lanes did not appear to be less safe than
          other right-turn provisions. Previous studies (see literature review) have
          shown shared lanes to be somewhat less safe than exclusive lanes. With
          the information from the island analysis it appears that the presence or
          absence of islands for right-turning maneuvers has a stronger effect than
          the effect of a shared right-turn lane.




                                        25
   Painted Crosswalks


      o An analysis of the proportion of vehicle maneuver and the presence or
         absence of a marked cross walk was completed. In a result consistent with
         other studies of uncontrolled pedestrian crossings, the proportion of right-
         turn maneuvers was significantly higher where painted crosswalks existed.
         As has been hypothesized elsewhere, this could be the result of both driver
         and pedestrian/cyclist behavior. Pedestrians and cyclists may be slightly
         less cautious where cross walks are marked and drivers making right-turns
         have their attention focused on vehicles to their left, away from where
         pedestrians and cyclists are likely to be located.


      o In a separate result, the proportion of straight vehicle maneuvers was
         significantly less where crosswalks were marked than where left
         unmarked. To help determine which maneuver was having the stronger
         effect on the significance of the crosswalks impact on the proportion of
         crashes, the difference of proportions was compared for right-turn crashes
         and left-turn crashes (ignoring straight crashes) and again for straight and
         left-turn crashes.   From this data, it appears that marked crosswalks
         significantly reduce the proportion of crashes involving vehicles going
         straight through an intersection. - Much more so than is offset by the slight
         but significant increase in the proportion of right-turn crashes at marked
         crosswalks.


         These results need to be studied further however, as the locations where
         crosswalks were unmarked in this analysis were in all but one case also
         locations with non standard geometry (T-intersections or offset
         intersections).   In the one standard approach where crossmarks were
         "unmarked", colored pavement was used to indicate a pedestrian space in


                                       26
          the intersection. For the purposes of this study, the data collection process
          only considered standard markings to be marked crosswalks.


      o   Conclusion ­ Where intersections are controlled and where right-turning
          volumes are relatively low, marked crosswalks should be considered to
          possibly reduce the number of crashes involving vehicles going straight
          through an intersection. Where right-turning volumes are relatively high,
          leaving crosswalks unmarked should be considered or other improvements
          should be considered in conjunction with the installation of painted
          crosswalks. Further study needs to be conducted.


   Left-turn Signal Phasing


      o Left-turn signal phasing, or more specifically, the use of protected only
          left-turn signal phasing was associated with significantly lower
          proportions of left-turn accidents.


      o Conclusion ­ Where left-turning vehicles have the potential to cause
          conflicts with high pedestrian or cyclist movements, protected left-turn
          phasing should be considered. As is the case with protected left-turns
          significantly reducing vehicle/vehicle conflicts, it is intuitively obvious
          that separating the pedestrian movement from the left-turning movement
          would result in fewer conflicts and fewer crashes.


   Speed Limits


      o The impact of speed limits on the proportion of vehicle crashes was
          studied with approach speed limits grouped into three categories; less than


                                        27
          35 mph, 35 mph, and greater than 35 mph. The results of this analysis
          indicated that the proportion of crashes involving vehicles going straight
          through an intersection were significantly higher on approaches with a
          speed limit of greater than 35 mph.


      o Conclusion ­ Where pedestrians and bicyclists cross high speed
          approaches, special consideration should be given to alert both the
          pedestrian/cyclist and the driver to the crossing.     Where feasible and
          consistent with engineering studies, efforts to reduce vehicle approach
          speed should be considered.


   Double Left-turns


      o Where double left-turns were provided on an approach, the proportion of
          left-turning related crashes was significantly higher. In what could be an
          aberration or could be a useful predictor, the proportion of right-turn
          crashes was significantly lower on approaches with double left-turn lanes.


      o Conclusion- With the earlier described result indicating that protected
          only left-turn phasing was associated with a lower proportion of left-turn
          related crashes, the increase in left-turn proportion on double left
          approaches is likely associated with locations where double lefts are
          provided without protected only phasing. This result reinforces that where
          left-turn conflicts with pedestrians or bicyclists occur, protected only
          phasing should be considered.


          Since there is no apparent relationship or potential cause and effect
          associated with why double left-turns would reduce right-turn crashes, it is



                                        28
         possible that right-turn crashes could be used to predict what the number
         of crashes would have been had the double left-turns been mitigated.
         More research needs to be done to determine whether this result is relevant
         or a meaningless correlation.


   Number of Through Lanes


      o The relationship between the proportions of crashes and the number of
         through lanes provided on an approach was analyzed. Three significant
         results were obtained.      In a somewhat counter-intuitive result, the
         proportion of right-turn crashes on roadways with 0 or 1 through lane (0ne
         "T" intersection was included in the analysis) the proportion of right-turn
         crashes was significantly higher than the overall proportion.          The
         proportion of straight crashes was significantly lower on these same
         roads.


         Additionally, on roadways with two or more through lanes on an
         approach, right-turn crashes were under-represented.


      o Conclusion ­ Since roads with fewer through lanes tend to be collectors
         and local roadways, it is likely that the proportion of turning movements
         on these smaller roadways is higher than on the roads with two or more
         through lanes. These results indicate that on smaller roadways, attention
         should be given to mitigating right-turn conflicts.




                                         29
   Other Geometric relationships analyzed


                                     o Many other relationships were analyzed with no significant difference in
                                           the proportion of vehicle maneuver crash types. These included:


   Number of Driveways within 250 Feet of Intersection ­ The results below include
   all 34 intersections studied in detail as part of this Phase 2 work.


                                     o The presence of driveways within 250 feet of an intersection appears to be
                                           associated with more reported pedestrian and bicycle related crashes.
                                           Where 1-4 driveways were present there was roughly ½ of a crash more in
                                           the five year period per approach than where no driveways existed.
                                           Where more than 4 driveways were present 1 ¼ to 1.5 additional crashes
                                           were recorded for the five year period.


                                                     Figure 3: Additional Crashes per Approach


                                                              Additional Crashes per Approach


                                     1.6

                                     1.4
   Additional Crashes per Approach




                                     1.2

                                      1

                                     0.8

                                     0.6

                                     0.4

                                     0.2

                                      0
                                               0         1          2            3              4   5        6
                                                                          # of Driveways




                                                                         30
      o Conclusion ­ As indicated in the Phase I research and other research, a
          substantial number of pedestrian and bicycle related crashes occur at
          driveways. The graphic above suggests that where driveways are present
          near an intersection, the number of crashes associated with that
          intersection approach rises. The graph also suggests that where driveways
          occur with 250 feet of an intersection, the number should be limited to
          four or less. When more than that number of driveways exists on an
          approach the expected number of crashes appears to rise dramatically. In
          the analysis done as part of this study no reason as to why one to four
          driveways would have similar crash numbers while 5 or more increased
          the number of crashes. While this pattern is interesting and worthy of
          future research, the pattern was not significant using a test for differences
          in proportions. Further analysis should be done to determine if there is
          significance to the pattern expressed in this data.


   Raised Crosswalks at Channelizing Islands


      o In this analysis, total crashes and right-turn crashes that occurred at an
          approach with channelizing island were compared with the total crashes
          and right-turn crashes that occurred at an approach with channelizing
          islands that has raised crosswalks. The proportion of right-turn crashes to
          total crashes at both the approaches was found to be similar.


      o Conclusion ­ On approaches with right-turn lanes with channelizing
          islands and where raised crosswalks were provided the proportion of
          crashes occurring were not significantly different than on approaches
          without raised crosswalks. However, field observations indicate that raised
          crosswalks indeed reduce the speed of the right turning vehicles and may
          prove to be useful in reducing the intensity of a bicycle-vehicle or

                                        31
         pedestrian-vehicle related crash. Also, as indicated in the discussion of
         channelized islands above, the raised crosswalks may be having an effect
         that has not been identified with the data and tests used in this study.


   Attached versus Detached Sidewalks


      o In this analysis, total pedestrian and bicycle related crashes at approaches
         with attached sidewalk were compared with the total pedestrian and
         bicycle related crashes at approaches with detached crosswalks. The data
         analyzed showed no significant difference in crashes at both attached and
         detached sidewalks.


      o Conclusion ­ Approaches with attached sidewalks does not appear to be
         less safe than the approaches with detached sidewalks.


   Raised Median Divided Approach


      o The impact of raised divided median on the proportion of pedestrian and
         bicycle related crashes at an approach was studied. The results indicated
         that the presence of a raised median at an approach does not seem to
         impact the proportion of crashes. The statistical analysis indicated no
         significant difference in proportion of crashes at an approach without
         raised median and at an approach with raised median.


      o Conclusion ­ Other study results indicate providing raised medians on
         multi-lane roads can reduce the pedestrian crash risk. The presence of
         raised medians discourages bicyclists and pedestrians from crossing a road
         at mid-block locations. However, on high speed/high volume streets, even


                                       32
          without a raised median, pedestrians or bicyclists tend to cross the street at
          designated crosswalk locations.


   Curb Parking within 250' of Intersection


      o In this analysis, the relationship between the number of crashes and the
          approaches with curb parking within 250' of intersection was analyzed.
          The analysis result indicated no significant difference in the proportion of
          crashes at an approach with curb parking and without curb parking.


      o Conclusion ­ This result was expected since the statistical analysis result
          for raised median divided approach indicated no significant pattern. Also,
          the crash database does not have a large number of dart-out crashes found
          typically at locations with curb parking.


   Right Turn on Red Prohibitions


      o The impact of right turn on red (RTOR) prohibition on the proportion of
          vehicle crashes was studied. The results of this analysis indicated that the
          proportion of crashes at an intersection with RTOR prohibitions was not
          significantly higher at intersections with no RTOR prohibitions.


      o Conclusion ­ Other studies indicate that RTOR prohibitions can reduce
          the occurrence of pedestrian and cyclist related crashes. This result only
          indicates that this relationship is not significant in this data set.




                                         33
Corridor Relationships

In examining the corridors identified by the Study Panel the total crashes recorded for the
corridors were compared. In the Figure below, the total number of crashes occurring on
each corridor is reported.


                                                           Figure 4:
                            Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crashes: Year 2001 through 2005



                               Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crash
                                            Year 2001 through 2005
                      140
                                 127

                      120

                                               99
                      100
  Number of Crashes




                      80

                                                                                         57
                      60
                                                             46
                                                                             42
                      40                                                                               33

                      20

                       0
                              Broadway      Arapahoe       Canyon       Pearl St.    Folsom St.      Baseline
                                 St.           Rd.          Blvd.                                      Rd.
                                                                  Corridor




                                                             34
While this indicates that the Broadway corridor has the most crashes, the per intersection
number of crashes was also reviewed. This is presented in Figure 5.


                                                                Figure 5:
                                    Average Number of Crashes per Intersection: Year 2001 through 2005


                                           Average Number of Crashes per Intersection:
                                                    Year 2001 through 2005


                                12.00                                                                    11.00

                                10.00
    Average Number of Crashes




                                 8.00

                                 6.00
                                                                                           4.38
                                 4.00                 3.19        3.29
                                          2.95
                                                                               2.47
                                 2.00

                                 0.00
                                        Broadway Arapahoe        Canyon      Pearl St.    Folsom     Baseline
                                           St.      Rd.           Blvd.                     St.        Rd.
                                                                        Corridor




Comparing these two graphs, clearly the Baseline Corridor has a high number of crashes
at a low number of intersections while the Broadway Corridor has a low number of
crashes at many different intersections. The data reflected in the second graph is the
average number of crashes at intersections where crashes occur.                                    There are many
intersections along all of these corridors where no crashes were reported.



                                                                   35
In an effort to glean some useful design information from the corridor information, the
data for on street and off street bicycle facilities was analyzed to see if any patterns
occurred to determine if there was a difference in the safety of the two types of facilities.
The on street vs. off street facility data are presented in Table 4 below.


These data suggest that where off street bicycle facilities are provided, the number of
crashes per intersection is lower than were on-street facilities are provided. This result
however was not statistically significant. While this result hints that off-street facilities
provide some safety benefit, many other questions need to be answered with future
research including whether the type of facility is more important than the other geometric
features. For example in the data set as a whole (not just on the identified corridors), of
the 503 crashes reported as either at an intersection or at a driveway, 110, or greater than
20% occurred at driveways. While vehicle counts were not taken at any driveways as
part of this study, it is safe to assume that volumes are much lower at driveways than at
intersections indicating that the rate of crashes at driveways is extremely high. Whether
off-street or on-street facilities are provided, special consideration needs to be given to
both intersections and driveway crossings.


Other relationships analyzed with either no significant differences or where too little data
was available for meaningful comparison included; shoulder presence, shoulder width,
shoulder condition, and development type (commercial, residential, mixed use).




                                             36
                                               Table 4: On Street Vs. Off Street Bike Facilities

                                                                                                                                            Bike
Intersection                             NB Bike Lane           EB Bike Lane               SB Bike Lane          WB Bike Lane             Crashes
                                      On Street Off Street   On Street Off Street      On Street Off Street   On Street Off Street        on     off
Folsom & Arapahoe                        X                                                X                                                  7
Baseline Road & 29th Street                                      X                                                X                          7
Broadway & Baseline Road
Arapahoe & 30th Street
Baseline Road & 30th Street                                      X                          X                     X                         6
Spruce St. & Broadway
Walnut Ave. & 30th Street                                        X                                                X                         8
Broadway & 18th Street                                                                               X                                             5
Pearl Street & 28th Street                                       X                                                X                         7
Regent Drive & Colorado                                          X                                                X                         8
Regent Drive & Broadway                                                                                                        X                   6
Pleasant & Broadway                                                                                  X            X                         3      3
Table Mesa Drive & Broadway                                                                                       X                         6
Valmont Road & 30th Street               X                       X                          X                                               6
Euclid & Broadway                                                                                    X                                             3
Canyon E/B North side & 14th street
Arapahoe Ave & 33rd street
Athens Street & 17th Street
Arapahoe Ave & 17th Street               X                                                  X                                               4
Conestoga & Arapahoe Avenue              X                                                  X                                               4
28th Street & Arapahoe Avenue
Folsom Street & Canyon Boulevard         X                                                  X                                               5
Iris Avenue & 28th Street
University & Broadway                                            X                          X                     X                          5
Walnut Street & 28th Street                                      X                                                X                          5
                                                                                                                  Total # of Crashes        81     17
                                                                                                              Total # of Intersections      14      4
                                                                                                                             Average     5.786   4.25




                                                                  37
VII    RECOMMENDATIONS

While this study points to important, useful, and statistically significant differences in
various geometric features and their impact on the occurrence of bicycle and pedestrian
related crashes, this study is in no way exhaustive. The relationship between various
features makes definitive conclusions difficult. The significant results and the design
guidance tool should be used with caution and is not a substitute for good engineering
judgment. As with most research the answers found in this study lead to more questions
and more possible research to better understand the interaction of pedestrians, cyclists,
and motorists.


General Recommendations


It is the strong recommendation of the project team that the database created as the basis
of this study be augmented to include an ongoing data entry and data verification
program. Significant effort was expended to make certain that the data entering the
database used in this study reflected actual conditions of the crashes reported (Phase I of
the study) and future data being entered into the database should receive similar
verification procedures. As pointed out in Phase I, consistent entry of data is essential to
being able to draw valid conclusions from the data. The PBCAT software proved very
useful in working as a foundation for the entry and classification of the various crashes
entered into the database.    Combining the crash specific information with approach
specific information provided the opportunity to make useful comparisons among the
geometric features found in the Right of Way. As more crashes are recorded and as the
geometric information of more intersections are recorded, the more useful and more
specific the conclusions drawn can be.


The more difficult task that potentially could be improved in a future study is the use of
"negative data".    Since this study focused on reported crashes, it was difficult to
                                            38
determine useful information at locations where few or no crashes occurred. We were
unable to answer questions along the lines of "what is working well" if there was nothing
working poorly with which to compare. An example is in the corridor comparisons. The
Baseline corridor shows a rate of 11 crashes per intersection where crashes occurred.
There are many other intersections along the corridor where no crashes occurred.
Perhaps a future study can be designed to compare intersections of similar geometric
design and volumes to compare near misses, conflicts, and crashes.


Another potential use of continuing to update the database would be to utilize the
geometric changes of intersections where crashes occur to perform before and after
studies of the various changes.


Specific Recommendations


More specific research should be done to investigate the cause and effect of both the
statistically significant patterns discovered in this study as well as the interesting though
statistically insignificant patterns.


The relationship between the presence of right turn bypass islands and whether or not an
exclusive right turn lane exists is important to address in a future study.             The
conventional wisdom at present is that these islands pose a risk to pedestrians and cyclists
as the right turning vehicles are uncontrolled until they reach their yield line past the
pedestrian crossing. The data collected for this study suggests that this may not be the
case where no acceleration lane is provided. Also a more in depth study specifically
designed to determine the impact of the use of raised crossings needs to be developed.


The crosswalk results also beg for additional study. Why do marked crosswalks appear
to reduce the occurrence of crashes where vehicles are traveling straight through an

                                             39
intersection while they appear to increase the occurrence of crashes involving right
turning vehicles?             Since these results involve a high number of non-standard
intersections, is there another design element that could be used in conjunction with
marked crosswalks that could mitigate the right turn increase while preserving the
reduction of straight crashes achieved at marked crosswalks at intersections?                                          For
example, would simply painting the crosswalks more often or making the crosswalk signs
more obvious have a beneficial impact.


There are many other relationships and combinations of relationships that could be
studied using the existing data, the research team encourages CDOT and the City of
Boulder to make the database available to other researchers and to continue to add data to
the existing work completed to date.




\\De1-s06\Jobs\_Transportation\072275 CDOT DTD-Bike Ped Study\manage\report\Final 29 June 2007\Report_Phase II draft
20070629 Final.doc




                                                            40
GLOSSARY

Intersection Approach ­ Leg of an intersection on which vehicles enter the intersection.

Detached ­ Pedestrian or cyclist travel way that is separated from the vehicle travel way
by any width of space not intend for travel parallel to the vehicle travel way. Examples
include; grass strip, brick pavers, landscaped area, etc.

Driveway ­ Any connection to the travel way defined by a path allowing vehicle access
crossing a pedestrian or cyclist facility that does not meet the definition of an
intersection.

Intersection ­ The crossing of two named vehicular travel ways. In all cases in this
study the crossings are controlled by either stop signs or signals.

NHTSA ­ National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

Right­Of­Way ­ Property owned by the State or Local government where travel-ways
exist.

Geometric Characteristics ­ the shapes of a travel way, striping, or other physical
features of an intersection or multi-use corridor.

On Street Facility ­ Marked bicycle lane on the same travel way as vehicle lanes

Off Street Facility ­ Marked or unmarked Facility that is separate from the vehicle travel
way. May be attached (such as an attached sidewalk or multi-use trail) or detached.

Multi-Use trail ­ Facility that allows use by both cyclists and pedestrians.

GIS ­ Geographical Information System

Half Signal ­ A half-signal is a pedestrian signal located at a stop-controlled T
intersection. Vehicular traffic on the side road must come to a stop before entering the
intersection, but pedestrians can push a button to get the main road traffic to stop.

HAWK Pedestrian Flasher ­ The High-intensity Activated crossWalK or HAWK
crossing is an extension of the traditional school bus flashing warning signal when
children are crossing the road and the European level or emergency crossing signal. The
signaling system is a combination of a beacon flasher and traffic control signaling
technique for marked crossings.

Marked Crosswalks ­ Crosswalks defined with pavement markings.

                                            41
APPENDIX A:


 References




    A-1
1. Stutts, J.C., W.W. Hunter, and W.E. Pein. Pedestrian-Vehicle Crash Types: An
   Update. In Transportation Research Record 1538, pp. 68-74, 1996.


2. Safety Effectiveness of Intersection Left and Right-Turn Lanes. U.S. Department of
   Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, Report #FHWA-RD-02-089,
   McLean, VA, 2002.


3. How to Develop a Pedestrian Safety Action Plan. Office of Safety Research and
   Development, U.S Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration,
   Report # FHWA-SA-05-12, McLean, VA, 2006.


4. SEMCOG Traffic Safety Manual. South-East Michigan Regional Council of
   Governments, September 1997.


5. King, M. Pedestrian Safety Through a Raised Median and Redesigned Intersections.
   In Transportation Research Record 1828, pp. 56-66, Transportation Research
   Board, Washington, D.C., 2003.


6. Retting, R.A., Ferguson, S.A. and McCarty, A.T. A Review of Evidence-Based
   Traffic Engineering Measures to Reduce Pedestrian Motor-Vehicle Crashes.
   Transportation   Research   Board    Annual     Conference    Paper   2004-002559,
   Transportation   Research   Board,      Washington,   D.C.,   2004.


7. Sandt, L., and Zegeer, C.V. Characteristics Related to Midblock Pedestrian-Vehicle
   Crashes and Potential Treatments. In Transportation Research Record 1982, pp.
   113-121, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2006.




                                     A-2
8. Zegeer, C.V., Stewart, J.R., Huang, H., and Lagerwey, P. Safety Effects of Marked
   Versus Unmarked Crosswalks at Uncontrolled Locations. In Transportation Research
   Record 1723, pp. 56-68, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2001.




                                      A-3
     APPENDIX B:


Summary of Selected Papers




           B-1
   1. Safety Effectiveness of Intersection Left- and-Right-Turn Lanes. Office of
       Safety Research and Development, U.S. Department of Transportation.
       Federal Highway Administration, Report # FHWA-RD-02-089, McLean,
       VA, 2004.


The objective of this study was to perform a well designed before-and-after evaluation of
selected types of intersection design improvements. The research was performed as a part of
pooled fund study, a portion of the funding for the research was contributed by highway agencies
in the District of Columbia and the states of Iowa, Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana,
Nebraska, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oregon, and Virginia. Representatives of the
participating highway agencies decided to focus the before-after evaluation on intersection
design improvements involving left-and-right-turn lanes based on the safety literature review.


Geometric data, traffic control, traffic volume, and traffic accident data were gathered for a total
of 280 improved intersections and 300 similar intersections that were not improved during the
study period. The types of improvement projects evaluated included installation of added left-
turn lanes, installation of added right-turn lanes, installation of added left-and-right-turn lanes,
and extension of length of existing left-and-right-turn lanes. Three different evaluation methods
were utilized in the research ­ before-and-after evaluation with yoked comparisons, before-and-
after evaluation with a comparison group, and before-and after comparison with Empirical Bayes
approach. All statistical significance tests were conducted at the 95 percent significance level.
The conclusions of the study are listed below:


       Added left-turn lanes are effective in improving safety at signalized and unsignalized
       intersections in both rural and urban areas. At urban unsignalized intersections,
       installation of a left-turn lane on one approach would be expected to reduce accidents by
       27% for four-leg intersections and by 33% for three-leg intersections. At four-leg urban
       signalized intersections, installation of a left-turn lane on one approach would be
       expected to reduce accidents by 10%.

                                                 B-2
   Added right-turn lanes are effective in improving safety at signalized and unsignalized
   intersections in both rural and urban areas. Right-turn lane installation reduced accidents
   on individual approaches to four-leg intersections by 27% at rural unsignalized
   intersections and by 18% at urban signalized intersections. Only limited results were
   found for right-turn lane installation at three-leg intersections. Installation of right-turn
   lanes on both major-road approaches to four-leg intersections would be expected to
   increase, but not quite double, the resulting effectiveness measures for total intersection
   accidents.


   A small sample of projects involving extension of the length of existing turn lanes at rural
   unsignalized and urban signalized intersections was evaluated. However, no reliable
   effectiveness measures could be developed from this small sample.


   In general, turn-lane improvements at rural intersections resulted in larger percentage
   reductions in accident frequency than comparable improvements at urban intersections.


   In the various evaluations performed, the effectiveness of turn-lane improvements in
   reducing fatal and injury accidents was greater than for total accidents in some cases, and
   less than for total accidents in others. Overall, there is no indication that any type of turn-
   lane improvement is either more or less effective for different accident severity levels.




                                            B-3
     2. Cyclists Perception and Evaluation of Street Characteristics. Peter van der
          Waerden, Aloys Borgers, and Harry Timmermans. Transportation
          Research Board 83rd Annual Meeting CD ROM, Washington, D.C.,
          Transportation Research Board, 2004.


This paper presented an attempt to measure street characteristics in urban areas that are observed
by cyclists, and how cyclists evaluate these street characteristics. The analysis consisted of two
parts. First the cyclist's observation was compared with the actual situation and the second part
consisted of the evaluation of the observations. It was found that the cyclists are most aware of
pavement (especially asphalt) followed by bicycle paths and lanes (especially separate bicycle
path) and priority at crossings. Cyclists were not aware of on-street parking facilities and bus
lanes. However, these results must be treated with caution due to the small sample size (86
cyclists) of the study.




                                               B-4
        APPENDIX C:


Intersection Data Collection Form




              C-1
C-1
1. Type of left-turn treatment:
N = No left-turn lanes.
C = Left-turn channelization defined by raised (curbed) or depressed median.
P = Painted left-turn channelization (no median or flush median).
NOTE: If number of left-turn lanes was zero, the type of left-turn treatment was N.

2. Type of right-turn treatment:
N = None.
I = Right-turn roadway created by a channelizing island without an exclusive right-turn lane
upstream of it (i.e., traffic entered the right-turn roadway from a shared lane used by both
through and right-turning traffic).
L = Right-turn roadway created by a channelizing island with an exclusive right-turn lane
upstream of it (i.e., traffic entered the right-turn roadway from an exclusive right-turn lane).
R = Conventional exclusive right-turn lane with no channelizing island.

3. Horizontal alignment (of approach):
T = Tangent.
G = Gentle curve (radius over 600 m or 2,000 ft).
M = Moderate curve (radius from 150 to 600 m or 500 to 2,000 ft).
S = Sharp curve (radius less than 600 m or 500 ft).
NOTE: The G, M, and S codes were used if the intersection was located on a horizontal curve or
if there was a horizontal curve on the approach within 250 feet of the intersection. The curve
radius was estimated visually in the three categories shown.

4. Approach grades (within 75 m or 250 ft of the intersection):
L = Level (less than 2 percent grade).
M = Moderate grade (2 to 4 percent grade).
S = Steep grade (over 4 percent grade).
NOTE: The percent grade was estimated visually.

5. Crest/sag vertical curve (on approach):
N = None.
C = Crest vertical curve on approach.
S = Sag vertical curve on approach.
NOTE: Recorded presence of crest and sag vertical curves that extended through the intersection
or were within 75 m (250 ft) of the intersection.

6. Total through-lane width (ft):
Combined total width of all the through lanes, including both shared left-turn and right-turn
lanes. Widths of exclusive right- and left-turn lanes were not included in the total through-lane
width. The number of lanes whose widths were measured matched the number of through lanes
recorded.
NOTE: The through-lane width was measured at the stop line or crosswalk with a measuring
wheel. The total through-lane width was recorded such that the total through-lane width divided
by the number of through lanes equaled the average lane width for the through lanes.

                                                 C-2
7. Right shoulder type:
P = Paved.
G = Gravel.
T = Turf.
C = Curb.

8. Right shoulder width (ft):
Measured from the outside edge of the through lane or right-turn lane to the outside edge of the
shoulder. This measurement was made with a measuring wheel.

9. Total LTL width (ft):
Combined total width of all exclusive left-turn lanes. The number of lanes whose widths were
measured matched the total number of exclusive left-turn lanes recorded.
NOTE: The total left-turn lane width was measured at the stop line or crosswalk. This
measurement was made with a measuring wheel. The total left-turn lane width was recorded
such that the total left-turn lane width divided the total number of exclusive left-turn lanes
equaled the average left-turn lane width.

10. Total LTL length (ft):
Total length of all exclusive left-turn lanes. NOTE: The total left-turn lane length was measured
from the stop line or crosswalk to the upstream end of the left-turn lane(s). This measurement
was made with a measuring wheel. If the left-turn lane included a taper at its upstream end, the
length of the left-turn lane was measured to the last point at which the left-turn lane had its full
width.

11. Total RTL width (ft):
Combined total width of all right-turn lanes. The number of lanes whose widths were measured
matched the total number of right-turn lanes recorded. NOTE: The total right-turn lane width was
measured at the stop line or crosswalk. This measurement was made with a measuring wheel.
The total right-turn lane width was recorded such that the total right-turn lane width divided by
the total number of right-turn lanes equaled the average right-turn lane width.

12. Total RTL length (ft):
Total length of all right-turn lanes. NOTE: The total right-turn lane length was measured from the
stop line or crosswalk to the upstream end of the right-turn lane(s). This measurement was made
with a measuring wheel. If the right-turn lane included a taper at its upstream end, the length of
the right-turn lane was measured to the last point at which the right-turn lane had its full width.

13. Divided/undivided:
D = Divided (a raised or depressed median, or a flush median at least 1.2 m (4 ft) in width, was
present between the lanes in opposing direction of travel).
U = Undivided (no median present; a roadway with a flush median less than 1.2 m (4 ft) in
width.




                                                 C-3
14. Median width (ft):
Measured from inside edge of the through lane to inside edge of through lane in the opposite
direction of travel (i.e., left-turn lanes cut into the median were included in the median width).
This measurement was made with a measuring wheel. If the approach was undivided, the median
width as recorded as 0 m (0 ft).

15. Median type:
N = No median.
R = Raised median (curbed with turf or pavement in the median).
D = Depressed median (turf median with no curbs). This type of median typically had a ditch or
swale below roadway grade.
F = Flush median (paved median that was flush with the roadway grade).

16. One-way/two-way operation:
1 = One-way traffic operation on the intersection leg containing the approach.
2 = Two-way traffic operation on the intersection leg containing the approach.

17. Left-turn prohibition:
N = No left-turn prohibition on this approach.
A = Left turns prohibited from this approach at all times.
M = Left turns prohibited from this approach during the morning peak period only, but not at
other times.
E = Left turns prohibited from this approach during the evening peak period only, but not at
other times.
B = Left turns prohibited from this approach during both peak periods, but not at other times.

18. Number of driveways within 75 m or 250 ft:
Total number of driveways within 75 m (250 ft) of the intersection on both sides of the street on
the intersection leg containing the approach in question.

19. Type of driveways:
N = No driveways (recorded as such if the number of driveways was equal to zero).
C = One or more commercial driveways included in the driveway count for this leg of the
intersection.
I = One or more industrial/institutional driveways included in the driveway count for this leg, but
no commercial driveways.
R = One or more residential driveways included in the driveway count for this leg, but no
commercial or industrial/institutional driveways.
NOTE: This category was intended to establish a hierarchy in which the driveway type for the
most heavily used driveway(s) was recorded. Commercial driveways are usually more heavily
used throughout the day than industrial/institutional driveways, which in turn are usually more
heavily used than residential driveways. Industrial/institutional driveways include those that
serve factories, non-retail businesses, government buildings, hospitals, schools, churches, and
apartment complexes (with more than 10 apartments).



                                                C-4
20. Curb parking within 75 m or 250 ft:
N = No curb parking on the right side of the intersection approach within 250 ft of the
intersection.
P = Parallel parking on the right side of the intersection approach within 250 ft of the
intersection.
A = Angle parking on right side of the intersection approach within 250 ft of the intersection.
NOTE: Width of angle parking area was not included in width of through lanes.

21. Traffic control:
N = None.
ST = STOP controlled.
SG = Signalized.
**. Left-turn phasing (arrows):
N = No protected left-turn phase (i.e., there was no green arrow so all left turns were made on the
green ball).
A = Protected left-turn phase with left turns allowed only during the protected phase (i.e., all left
turns were made with a green arrow, while no left turns were allowed on green ball).
B = Protected left-turn phase with left turns permitted both during the protected phase and on the
green ball (i.e., protected/permissive operation).

22. Pedestrian signals:
Y = Pedestrian signals (WALK/DON'T WALK) present for crossing the approach in question.
N = No pedestrian signals for crossing the approach.

23. Painted crosswalk on approach:
Y = Painted or marked pedestrian crosswalk present on the approach in question.
N = No painted crosswalk on the approach in question.

24. Advance warning signs:
Y = Advance warning signs (e.g., SIGNAL AHEAD) present on the approach in question.
F = Advance warning signs present AND the warning signs were accompanied by flashing
beacons.
N = No advance warning signs on the approach.
NOTE: If there was an advance warning sign with any legend other than SIGNAL AHEAD (or
the SIGNAL AHEAD symbol sign), the sign legend was noted as a comment. Advisory speed
limits are not typically used in conjunction with SIGNAL AHEAD signs; however, if an
advisory speed limit was used on the approach (except for a temporary work zone speed limit),
the magnitude of the advisory speed limit was noted as a comment.
**. Posted speed limit (mph):
The posted regulatory speed limit (mph) on each approach.
NOTE: Regulatory speed limit signs are normally repeated at intervals to make sure that drivers
are aware of the speed limit. If there were no speed limit signs within the immediate vicinity of
the intersection, data collectors drove up to 1.6 km (1 mile) upstream to check for speed limit
signs that applied to the approach in question. If there were no regulatory speed limits signs on
the street, the following default speed limits were used:
25 mph = Business or residential district on a non-state highway.
                                                C-5
55 mph = State highways or outside of business and residential areas on non-state highways.

25. Angle of intersection:
The angle between the intersecting approaches. The angle entered was the smallest angle
between the intersecting approaches (i.e., entered as 90 degrees or an acute angle between 0 and
90 degrees).
NOTE: If the angle was other than 90 degrees, a sketch was made of the three or four approaches
to illustrate which approaches intersected at acute, right, and obtuse angles.

26. Lighting:
N = None.
H = High-mast lighting (not expected at conventional highway intersections; more typical of
freeway interchanges).
S = Street lighting (individual luminaries) continuously along one or both intersecting streets.
I = Street lighting (individual luminaries) at the intersection, but not along the intersecting
streets.
NOTE: Ambient light sources other than street lighting present at the intersection were noted by a
supplementary code of Y (Yes) or N (No).

27. Character of development:
A = Agricultural area.
C = Central business district/downtown.
B = Outlying commercial business district.
I = Industrial district.
M = Mixed commercial and residential development.
R = Residential development.
X = Other (describe in comment).

28. Level of pedestrian activity:
L = Low (almost no pedestrian activity).
M = Medium (pedestrian activity with some frequency).
H = High (pedestrian activity with some frequency).




                                               C-6
  APPENDIX D:


Design Guidance Tool




        D-1
            Objective                                                                                                                     Countermeasures
                                   Pedestrian/Bike Facility DesignRoadway Design                            Intersection Design                          Traffic Calming                     Signs & Signals                          Other Measures
Reduce ped/bike crashes            Warning Signs for Pedestrians  Advance Stop Lines                        Raised Pedestrian Crosswalk at Right-Turn                                        Warning Signs for Motorists              Speed Monitoring Trailor
involving right-turning vehicles   Approaching the Intersection                                             Approaches
                                                                  Reduce Speed of Vehicles Approaching      Consider Channelizing Island at Exclusive                                        Prohibit Right-Turn on Red during Peak   School Zone Improvements
                                                                  the Intersection                          Right-Turn Lanes*                                                                Hours of Pedestrian Activity
                                                                     On smaller roadways where turning Smaller Curb Radius                                                                   Advance Stop Lines
                                                                     movements are a high proportion
                                                                     consider right turn mitigation
                                                                     strategies*
                                                                                                           Improve Sight Distance for Right-Turning Vehicles
Reduce Ped/Bike Crashes            Signs for pedestrians approaching                                       Raised Pedestrian Crossings                                                       Protected Left-Turn Phasing*
Involving Left-Turning Vehicles    the intersection such as "Vehicle
                                   Crossing"
                                                                                                           Avoid Double Left Installations. Where                                            Prohibit Permitted Left-Turns during Peak School Zone Improvements
                                                                                                           Double Lefts are necessary consider other                                         Hours of Pedestrian Activity
                                                                                                           mitigation measures.*
Reduce Ped/Bike Crashes            Warning Signs for Pedestrians     If possible, Consider Off-Street Bike Painted Crosswalks for Through Movements                                                                                   Illuminate Crosswalks for better
Involving Through Vehicles         Approaching the Intersection      Facility                              at Controlled intersections*                                                                                               Night-Time Visibility
                                   Overpass/Underpass
Reduce Bicycle-Vehicle Crashes                                       Add a Separate On-Street Bike Lane

                                                                    If Possible, Consider Off-Street Bike
                                                                    Facility
Reduce Pedestrian Exposure to      Overpass/Underpasses             Road Narrowing                                                                             Curb Extension                Adequate Pedestrian Signal Timings
Traffic
                                                                    Reduce Number of Lanes                                                                     Chokers                       Accessible Pedestrian Signal
                                                                    Raised Median                                                                              Pedestrian Crossing Islands
                                                                    Pedestrian Island Crossing
Reduce Mid-block Pedestrian        Improve Pedestrian Access and    Raised Medians, Landscaped Medians to                                                                                    Accessible Pedestrian Signal             Illuminate Crosswalks for better
Crossings                          Mobility                         Discourage Mid-Block Crossings                                                                                                                                    Night-Time Visibility
                                                                    Designated Mid-Block Crossings
Reduce Speed of Vehicles                                            Road Narrowing                        Engineering Measures to Reduce Approach              Curb Extension                                                         Speed Monitoring Trailor
                                                                                                          Speed at Facilities with Speed Limit>
                                                                    Reduce Number of Lanes                                                                     Chokers                                                                School Zone Improvements
                                                                    Driveway Improvements                                                                      Speed Humps
                                                                    Curb Radius Reduction                                                                      Speed Tables
                                                                    Right-Turn Slip Lane                                                                       Raised Pedestrian Crossings
Improve Sight Distance and         Roadway Lighting                 Add Bike Lane                                                                              Curb Extension                Sign Improvements
Visibility for Vehicles and        Crosswalk Enhancements                                                                                                      Speed Tables                  Advance Stop Lines
Pedestrians                                                                                                                                                    Pedestrian Crossing Islands
                                                                                                                                                               Raised Pedestrian Crossings
Improve Compliance with Traffic                                                                             Red Light Cameras                                  Traffic Calming Measures                                               Speed Monitoring Trailor
Laws                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pedestrian/Driver Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Police Enforcement


*CDOT DTD Phase II Analysis Results
Other Results based on Literature Review

6/29/2007




                                                                                                                                 D-1
       APPENDIX E:


Statistical Analysis Datasheets




             E-1
                               Right Turn Crashes at Shared Right Turn Lanes with Channelizing Islands
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             Islands with Shared Lane

                       Summary Statistics and User Input
             Group                         n                   X           p_hat     n=All Crash Types X=Right turn Crashes
 Sample1 (RT Crashes at Islands)           6                    2          0.333
   Sample2 (34 intersections)             213                  91          0.427

                                 null                             Calculations
                               alpha                    0.1   pooled_p          0.425 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                           alternate                  upper         SE         0.2046 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                      z        -0.459 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                         Upper Test
                            upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                             Pvalue          0.6768 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.646 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                         Lower Test
                            lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                           Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                0.323 NORMSDIST(z)

                             Right Turn Crashes at Exclusive Right Turn Lanes without Channelizing Islands
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Rt. Turn Lanes without Islands

                         Summary Statistics and User Input
              Group                          n                 X           p_hat     n=All Crash Types X=Right turn Crashes
    Sample1 (Right Turn Lanes)               46                26          0.565
     Sample2 (34 intersections)             213                91          0.427

P1 = Probability of an accident at a Raised Median
P2 = Probability of an accident at 34 intersections

                                 null                             Calculations
                               alpha                    0.1   pooled_p          0.452 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                           alternate                  upper         SE         0.0809 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                      z         1.705 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                         Upper Test
                            upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                          Decision             Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2
                             Pvalue               0.0441 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision              Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.088 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                         Lower Test
                            lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                           Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                0.956 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                        E-2
                              Right Turn Crashes at Exclusive Right Turn Lanes with Channelizing Islands
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Exclusive Rt. Turn Lanes with and without Islands

                        Summary Statistics and User Input
             Group                          n                 X           p_hat     n=All Crash Types X=Right turn Crashes
    Sample1 (Rt. Turn Lanes)                83                41          0.494
    Sample2 (34 intersections)             213                91          0.427

                               null                              Calculations
                             alpha                   0.1     pooled_p          0.446 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                         alternate                 upper           SE         0.0643 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z         1.038 ((D5-D6)/SE
                         Results
                       Upper Test
                          upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                              Significance Test
                        Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                     H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                           Pvalue               0.1497 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                   H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                   Two Sided Test
                           two_z                   1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                           Pvalue                  0.299 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                       Lower Test
                          lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                           Pvalue                  0.850 NORMSDIST(z)

                              Right Turn Crashes at Exclusive Right Turn Lanes with Channelizing Islands
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Islands w/ exclusive Rt. Turn Lanes

                        Summary Statistics and User Input
              Group                         n                 X           p_hat     n=All Crash Types X=Right turn Crashes
Sample1 (Rt. Turn Lanes w/ Islands)         37                15          0.405
    Sample2 (34 intersections)             213                91          0.427

                               null                              Calculations
                             alpha                   0.1     pooled_p          0.424 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                         alternate                 upper           SE         0.0880 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -0.248 ((D5-D6)/SE
                         Results
                       Upper Test
                          upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                              Significance Test
                        Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                     H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                           Pvalue               0.5979 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                   H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                   Two Sided Test
                           two_z                   1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                           Pvalue                  0.804 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                       Lower Test
                          lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                           Pvalue                  0.402 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                       E-3
                                               Right Turn Crashes at No Shared Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              No Shared Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Right Turns
              Group                           n              X       p_hat
     Sample1 (No Shared Lane)                102            53       0.520
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213            91       0.427

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.457 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE      0.0600 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z       1.540 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z                1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                 Significance Test
                         Decision              Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")        H0: P1 = P2
                            Pvalue                0.0618 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                      H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                0.124 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.938 NORMSDIST(z)



                                                Left Turn Crashes at No Shared Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              No Shared Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Left Turns
              Group                           n              X        p_hat
     Sample1 (No Shared Lane)                102             11       0.108
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213             43       0.202

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.171 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE      0.0454 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z      -2.072 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                  Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.9809 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Reject H0              IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                  0.038 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision              Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.019 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-4
                                                Straight Crashes at No Shared Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              No Shared Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Straight
              Group                           n              X       p_hat
     Sample1 (No Shared Lane)                102            25       0.245
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213            52       0.244

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.244 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE      0.0517 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z       0.019 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")       H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.4925 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                     H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                            two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                0.985 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.507 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                   E-5
                                          Right Turn Crashes at Shared Right Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Shared Rt. Turn Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Rt. Turns
          Group                      n               X      p_hat
  Sample1 (Shared Lane)            111               38     0.342
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         213              91     0.427

                        null                          Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1   pooled_p         0.398 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper         SE       0.0573 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                         z        -1.481 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                               Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                      H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.9307 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                    H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z               1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2)
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.139 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision            Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.069 NORMSDIST(z)



                                           Left Turn Crashes at Shared Right Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Shared Rt. Turn Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Lt. Turns
          Group                      n               X       p_hat
  Sample1 (Shared Lane)             111              32      0.288
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         213              43      0.202

                        null                          Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1   pooled_p         0.231 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper         SE       0.0494 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                         z         1.750 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z             1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
                 Decision           Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue             0.0401 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2)
                 Decision Reject H0             IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                 0.080 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.960 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                 E-6
                                           Straight Crashes at Shared Right Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Shared Rt. Turn Lane
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Straight
          Group                      n               X       p_hat
  Sample1 (Shared Lane)            111               27      0.243
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        213               52      0.244

                        null                          Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1   pooled_p         0.244 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper         SE       0.0503 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                         z        -0.018 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                               Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                      H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.5070 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                    H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z               1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2)
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.986 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.493 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                  E-7
                               Right Turn Crashes vs Left+Right Turn Crashes at Unpainted Crosswalks
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             Unpainted Crosswalk
                                                                                             n=Left and Right Crashes
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                                    X= Rt. Turns
             Group                         n              X        p_hat
  Sample1 (Unpainted Crosswalk)            11              7       0.636
    Sample2 (34 intersections)            132             90       0.682

                              null                            Calculations
                            alpha                 0.1     pooled_p          0.678 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                        alternate               upper           SE         0.1466 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z         -0.310 ((D5-D6)/SE
                        Results
                      Upper Test
                         upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                Significance Test
                       Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                       H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                          Pvalue          0.6217 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                     H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                  Two Sided Test
                           two_z               1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                        Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                          Pvalue               0.757 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                      Lower Test
                         lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                        Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                          Pvalue                0.378 NORMSDIST(z)

                               Straight Crashes vs Left+Straight Turn Crashes at Unpainted Crosswalks
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Unpainted Crosswalk
                                                                                              n=Left and Straight Crashes
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Straight
             Group                         n              X         p_hat
  Sample1 (Unpainted Crosswalk)            17             13        0.765
    Sample2 (34 intersections)             93             51        0.548




                              null                            Calculations
                            alpha                0.05     pooled_p          0.582 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                        alternate               upper           SE         0.1301 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z          1.663 ((D5-D6)/SE
                        Results
                      Upper Test
                         upper z             1.6449 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                       Decision           Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2
                          Pvalue             0.0482 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                  Two Sided Test
                           two_z               1.960 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                        Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                          Pvalue               0.096 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                      Lower Test
                         lower z               -1.645 NORMSINV(alpha)
                        Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                          Pvalue                0.952 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                   E-  8
                                      Right Turn Crashes at Protected/Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                Protected/Permitted
                                                                                          n=All Crash Types
                          Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Rt. Turns
              Group                            n            X         p_hat
        Sample1 (Prot/Perm)                    99           43         0.434
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               171           76         0.444

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.441 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0627 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -0.161 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.5640 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.872 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.436 NORMSDIST(z)

                                       Left Turn Crashes at Protected/Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                 Protected/Permitted
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                          Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Lt. Turns
              Group                            n             X         p_hat
        Sample1 (Prot/Perm)                    99            25        0.253
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               171            39        0.228

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.237 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0537 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z         0.455 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.3244 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.649 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.676 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                    E-9
                                        Straight Crashes at Protected/Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                 Protected/Permitted
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                          Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Straight
              Group                            n              X        p_hat
        Sample1 (Prot/Perm)                    99            20         0.202
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               171            35         0.205

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.204 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0509 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -0.052 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.5208 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.958 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.479 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                    E-10
                                              Right Turn Crashes at Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             Permitted
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                    X= Rt. Turns
          Group                      n                 X          p_hat
   Sample1 (Permitted)               45               23          0.511
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         171               76          0.444

                        null                              Calculations
                      alpha                   0.1    pooled_p           0.458 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate                 upper          SE          0.0835 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                            z           0.799 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue               0.2123 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                   two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.425 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                  0.788 NORMSDIST(z)

                                           Left Turn Crashes at Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Permitted
                                                                                                  n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                           X= Lt. Turns
         Group                      n                 X             p_hat
  Sample1 (Permitted)               45               11             0.244
Sample2 (34 intersections)         171               39             0.228

                        null                              Calculations
                      alpha                   0.1    pooled_p           0.231 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate                 upper          SE          0.0707 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                            z           0.232 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue               0.4084 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                   two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.817 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                  0.592 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                    E-11
                                            Straight Crashes at Permitted Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                          Permitted
                                                                                                  n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                           X= Straight
         Group                      n                 X             p_hat
  Sample1 (Permitted)               45                6             0.133
Sample2 (34 intersections)         171               35             0.205

                        null                              Calculations
                      alpha                   0.1    pooled_p           0.190 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate                 upper          SE          0.0657 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                            z          -1.086 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue               0.8612 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.278 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                  0.139 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-12
                                          Right Turn Crashes at Protected Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                           Protected Only
                                                                                      n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Rt. Turns
          Group                       n              X         p_hat
    Sample1 (Protected)              27              10        0.370
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         171              76        0.444

                         null                            Calculations
                       alpha                 0.1   pooled_p            0.434 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                   alternate               upper         SE           0.1026 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z           -0.722 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                   Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue          0.7647 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                      two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision    Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue               0.471 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                 Lower Test
                    lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                   Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                     Pvalue                0.235 NORMSDIST(z)

                                           Left Turn Crashes at Protected Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                           Protected Only
                                                                                      n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Lt. Turns
          Group                       n              X          p_hat
    Sample1 (Protected)              27               3         0.111
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         171              39         0.228

                         null                            Calculations
                       alpha                 0.1   pooled_p            0.212 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                   alternate               upper         SE           0.0847 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z           -1.382 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                   Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue          0.9164 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                      two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision    Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue               0.167 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                 Lower Test
                    lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                   Decision            Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                     Pvalue                0.084 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                 E-13
                                            Straight Crashes at Protected Signal Phasing
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                            Protected Only
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Straight
          Group                      n               X          p_hat
    Sample1 (Protected)              27               9         0.333
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         171              35         0.205

                         null                            Calculations
                       alpha                 0.1   pooled_p            0.222 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                   alternate               upper         SE           0.0861 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z            1.494 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z            1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                           Significance Test
                   Decision          Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                  H0: P1 = P2
                      Pvalue            0.0675 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                      two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision    Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue               0.135 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                 Lower Test
                    lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                   Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                     Pvalue                0.932 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                  E-14
                                                  Right Turn Crashes at Speed Limit <35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Speed Limit <35
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Rt. Turns
              Group                            n              X       p_hat
         Sample1 (<35)                       116              55      0.474
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213              91      0.427




                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p      0.444 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE     0.0573 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z     0.818 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.2066 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.413 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.793 NORMSDIST(z)

                                                   Left Turn Crashes at Speed Limit <35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                               Speed Limit <35
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Lt. Turns
              Group                            n               X       p_hat
         Sample1 (<35)                       116              24       0.207
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213              43       0.202




                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p      0.204 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE     0.0465 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z     0.108 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.4570 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.914 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.543 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-15
                                                    Straight Crashes at Speed Limit <35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                               Speed Limit <35
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Straight
              Group                            n               X       p_hat
         Sample1 (<35)                        116              24       0.207
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               213              52      0.244




                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.231 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE     0.0486 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z     -0.766 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.7780 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.444 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.222 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                    E-16
                                              Right Turn Crashes at Speed Limit 35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Speed Limit 35
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                        X= Rt. Turns
         Group                    n               X          p_hat
     Sample1 (35)                 83             33          0.398
Sample2 (34 intersections)       213             91          0.427




                        null                        Calculations
                      alpha             0.1    pooled_p           0.419 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate           upper          SE          0.0638 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                      z          -0.464 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z         1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision o Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue         0.6788 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z            1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue            0.642 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z           -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue            0.321 NORMSDIST(z)

                                              Left Turn Crashes at Speed Limit 35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Speed Limit 35
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                        X= Lt. Turns
         Group                    n               X          p_hat
     Sample1 (35)                 83             16          0.193
Sample2 (34 intersections)       213             43          0.202




                        null                        Calculations
                      alpha             0.1    pooled_p           0.199 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate           upper          SE          0.0517 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                      z          -0.176 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z         1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision o Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue         0.5699 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z            1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue            0.860 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z           -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue            0.430 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                               E-17
                                               Straight Crashes at Speed Limit 35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Speed Limit 35
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                                        X= Straight
         Group                    n               X          p_hat
     Sample1 (35)                 83             22          0.265
Sample2 (34 intersections)       213             52          0.244




                        null                        Calculations
                      alpha             0.1    pooled_p           0.250 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate           upper          SE          0.0560 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                      z           0.374 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z         1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision o Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue         0.3544 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z            1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue            0.709 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z           -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue            0.646 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                 E-18
                                           Right Turn Crashes at Speed Limit >35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                     Speed Limit > 35
                                                                                n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                            X= Rt. Turns
         Group                  n               X         p_hat
    Sample1 (>35)               9                3        0.333
Sample2 (34 intersections)    213               91        0.427




                     null                        Calculations
                   alpha             0.1    pooled_p           0.423 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
               alternate           upper          SE          0.1681 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                   z          -0.558 ((D5-D6)/SE
               Results
             Upper Test
                upper z         1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
              Decision o Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2
                 Pvalue         0.7117 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
        Two Sided Test
                 two_z            1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
              Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                Pvalue            0.577 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

             Lower Test
                lower z           -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
               Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                 Pvalue            0.288 NORMSDIST(z)

                                            Left Turn Crashes at Speed Limit >35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Speed Limit > 35
                                                                                 n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                             X= Lt. Turns
         Group                  n               X          p_hat
    Sample1 (>35)               9                1         0.111
Sample2 (34 intersections)    213               43         0.202




                     null                        Calculations
                   alpha             0.1    pooled_p           0.198 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
               alternate           upper          SE          0.1357 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                   z          -0.669 ((D5-D6)/SE
               Results
             Upper Test
                upper z         1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
              Decision o Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2
                 Pvalue         0.7483 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
        Two Sided Test
                 two_z            1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
              Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                Pvalue            0.503 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

             Lower Test
                lower z           -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
               Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                 Pvalue            0.252 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                           E-19
                                            Straight Crashes at Speed Limit >35
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                     Speed Limit > 35
                                                                                n=All Crash Types
                   Summary Statistics and User Input                            X= Straight
         Group                  n               X         p_hat
    Sample1 (>35)               9                5        0.556
Sample2 (34 intersections)    213               52        0.244




                     null                         Calculations
                   alpha            0.02     pooled_p           0.257 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
               alternate           upper           SE          0.1487 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                    z           2.095 ((D5-D6)/SE
               Results
             Upper Test
                upper z          2.0537 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                           Significance Test
              Decision        Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                  H0: P1 = P2
                 Pvalue          0.0181 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
        Two Sided Test
                 two_z            2.326 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
              Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                Pvalue            0.036 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

             Lower Test
                lower z           -2.054 NORMSINV(alpha)
               Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                 Pvalue            0.982 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                            E-20
                                        Right Turn Crashes at approaches with <2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                    <2 Left Turn Lanes
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                            Summary Statistics and User Input                                 X= Rt. Turns
              Group                            n              X          p_hat
    Sample1 (<2 Lt Turn Lanes)                173             82         0.474
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               213             91         0.427

                                null                               Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1      pooled_p            0.448 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper            SE           0.0509 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                      z            0.919 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                        Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")               H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.1791 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                             H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.358 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.821 NORMSDIST(z)

                                         Left Turn Crashes at approaches with <2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                     <2 Left Turn Lanes
                                                                                               n=All Crash Types
                            Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Lt. Turns
              Group                            n               X          p_hat
    Sample1 (<2 Lt Turn Lanes)                173             29          0.168
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               213             43          0.202

                                null                               Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1      pooled_p            0.187 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper            SE           0.0399 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                      z           -0.859 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                        Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")               H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.8048 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                             H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.390 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue
                                                                    E-
                                                    0.195 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                       21
                                          Straight Crashes at approaches with <2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                     <2 Left Turn Lanes
                                                                                               n=All Crash Types
                            Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Straight
              Group                            n               X          p_hat
    Sample1 (<2 Lt Turn Lanes)                173              40         0.231
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               213              52         0.244

                                null                               Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1      pooled_p            0.238 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper            SE           0.0436 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                      z           -0.296 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                        Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")               H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.6165 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                             H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.767 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.384 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-22
                                         Right Turn Crashes at approaches with 2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                            Double Left Turn
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                    X= Rt. Turns
          Group                       n                  X        p_hat
   Sample1 (Double Left)             40                  9        0.225
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         213                91         0.427

                       null                              Calculations
                     alpha                   0.1     pooled_p          0.395 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                 alternate                 upper           SE         0.0842 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                            z         -2.400 ((D5-D6)/SE
                 Results
               Upper Test
                  upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                Significance Test
                Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                       H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                   Pvalue               0.9918 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                     H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Reject H0              IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                  0.016 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

               Lower Test
                  lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                 Decision              Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                  0.008 NORMSDIST(z)

                                          Left Turn Crashes at approaches with 2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                            Double Left Turn
                                                                                             n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Lt. Turns
          Group                       n                  X        p_hat
   Sample1 (Double Left)             40                14         0.350
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         213                43          0.202

                       null                              Calculations
                     alpha                   0.1     pooled_p          0.225 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                 alternate                 upper           SE         0.0720 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                            z          2.057 ((D5-D6)/SE
                 Results
               Upper Test
                  upper z                1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                               Significance Test
                Decision              Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                      H0: P1 = P2
                   Pvalue                0.0198 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                    H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Reject H0              IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                  0.040 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

               Lower Test
                  lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                 Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                  0.980 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-23
                                          Straight Crashes at approaches with 2 Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                            Double Left Turn
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                    X= Straight
          Group                       n                  X        p_hat
   Sample1 (Double Left)             40                12         0.300
 Sample2 (34 intersections)         213                52         0.244

                        null                              Calculations
                      alpha                   0.1     pooled_p          0.253 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate                 upper           SE         0.0749 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                             z          0.746 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                Significance Test
                 Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                       H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue               0.2279 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                     H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.456 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                  0.772 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-24
                                   Right Turn Crashes at Approaches with 1 Through Lane or less
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              0-1 Through Lanes
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                              X= Rt. Turns
               Group                           n             X      p_hat
    Sample1 (0-1 Through Lanes)               72            40      0.556
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               204           85      0.417

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.453 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE      0.0682 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z       2.035 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z                1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                 Significance Test
                         Decision              Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")        H0: P1 = P2
                            Pvalue                0.0209 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                      H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Reject H0              IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                  0.042 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.979 NORMSDIST(z)

                                   Left Turn Crashes at Approaches with 1 Through Lane or less
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             0-1 Through Lanes
                                                                                      n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                             X= Lt. Turns
               Group                           n            X       p_hat
    Sample1 (0-1 Through Lanes)               72            13      0.181
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               204           42      0.206

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.199 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper         SE      0.0548 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z      -0.463 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                  Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.6781 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                 0.644 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.322 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                E-25
                                    Straight Crashes at Approaches with 1 Through Lane or less
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              0-1 Through Lanes
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                              X= Straight
               Group                           n             X      p_hat
    Sample1 (0-1 Through Lanes)                72           10      0.139
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               204           50      0.245

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                  0.1    pooled_p       0.217 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                upper          SE      0.0565 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                   z      -1.878 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                 Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")        H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.9698 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                      H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                            two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                          Decision Reject H0             IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                            Pvalue                 0.060 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision              Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.030 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                 E-26
                                       Right Turn Crashes at Approaches with 2 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                        2 Through Lanes
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                 X= Rt. Turns
          Group                     n                X         p_hat
Sample1 (2 Through Lanes)          116               37        0.319
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        204               85        0.417

                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1    pooled_p          0.381 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper          SE         0.0565 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z         -1.730 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.9582 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Reject H0             IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                 0.084 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision            Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.042 NORMSDIST(z)

                                        Left Turn Crashes at Approaches with 2 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         2 Through Lanes
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Lt. Turns
          Group                     n                X         p_hat
Sample1 (2 Through Lanes)          116               27        0.233
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        204               42        0.206

                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1    pooled_p          0.216 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper          SE         0.0478 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z          0.562 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.2871 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z               1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.574 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.713 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-27
                                        Straight Crashes at Approaches with 2 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                        2 Through Lanes
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Straight
          Group                     n                X         p_hat
Sample1 (2 Through Lanes)          116               35        0.302
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        204               50        0.245

                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1    pooled_p          0.266 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper          SE         0.0514 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                          z          1.103 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.1351 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                   two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.270 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.865 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                   E-28
                                      Right Turn Crashes at Approaches with 3 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             3 Through Lanes
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                              X= Rt. Turns
           Group                        n                 X       p_hat
      Sample1 (3 Lanes)                16                  8      0.500
  Sample2 (34 intersections)          204                 85      0.417

                          null                               Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1      pooled_p            0.423 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper            SE           0.1282 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z           0.650 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                              Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                     H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.2579 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                   H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                       two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                0.516 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.742 NORMSDIST(z)

                                       Left Turn Crashes at Approaches with 3 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                             3 Through Lanes
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                              X= Lt. Turns
           Group                        n                 X        p_hat
      Sample1 (3 Lanes)                16                  2       0.125
  Sample2 (34 intersections)          204                 42       0.206

                          null                               Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1      pooled_p            0.200 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper            SE           0.1038 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z          -0.779 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                              Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                     H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.7820 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                   H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                       two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                0.436 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.218 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-29
                                        Straight Crashes at Approaches with 3 Through Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              3 Through Lanes
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Straight
           Group                        n                 X        p_hat
      Sample1 (3 Lanes)                16                  5       0.313
  Sample2 (34 intersections)          204                 50       0.245

                          null                               Calculations
                        alpha                  0.02      pooled_p            0.250 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper            SE           0.1124 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z           0.600 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               2.0537 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                              Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                     H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.2744 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                   H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                      two_z                 2.326 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                0.549 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -2.054 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.726 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                   E-30
                                Right Turn Crashes at Signalized Intersection with no Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                Signalized Intersection no Ped Indication
                                                                                               n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                                      X= Rt. Turns
              Group                            n              X        p_hat
    Sample1 (No Ped Indication)                6              1        0.167
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               181             78       0.431

                                 null                           Calculations
                               alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.422 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                           alternate                 upper         SE      0.2050 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z      -1.289 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                         Upper Test
                            upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                       Significance Test
                          Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")              H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                             Pvalue               0.9014 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                            H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                     Two Sided Test
                              two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                           Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                 0.197 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                         Lower Test
                            lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                           Decision              Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                  0.099 NORMSDIST(z)

                                Left Turn Crashes at Signalized Intersection with no Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                               Signalized Intersection no Ped Indication
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Lt. Turns
              Group                            n              X       p_hat
    Sample1 (No Ped Indication)                6              0       0.000
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               181            39       0.215

                                 null                           Calculations
                               alpha                   0.1   pooled_p       0.209 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                           alternate                 upper         SE      0.1686 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z      -1.278 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                         Upper Test
                            upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                       Significance Test
                          Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")              H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                             Pvalue               0.8994 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                            H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                     Two Sided Test
                              two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                           Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                 0.201 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                         Lower Test
                            lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                           Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                  0.101 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                    E-31
                                Straight Crashes at Signalized Intersection with no Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                               Signalized Intersection no Ped Indication
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                        Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Straight
              Group                            n             X        p_hat
    Sample1 (No Ped Indication)                6             4        0.667
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               181            40       0.221

                                 null                           Calculations
                               alpha                  0.1    pooled_p       0.235 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                           alternate                upper          SE      0.1760 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                    z       2.532 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                         Upper Test
                            upper z                1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                     Significance Test
                          Decision              Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")            H0: P1 = P2
                             Pvalue                0.0057 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                          H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                     Two Sided Test
                              two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2
                           Decision Reject H0              IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                  0.011 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(

                         Lower Test
                            lower z                -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                           Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                             Pvalue                 0.994 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-32
                              Right Turn Crashes at Signalized Intersection with Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Signalized Intersection Ped Indication
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Rt. Turns
           Group                       n               X       p_hat
  Sample1 (Ped Indication)            175              77      0.440
 Sample2 (34 intersections)           181              78      0.431

                          null                            Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1    pooled_p        0.435 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper          SE       0.0526 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                              z        0.172 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.4316 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                       two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0       IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.863 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.568 NORMSDIST(z)

                              Left Turn Crashes at Signalized Intersection with Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Signalized Intersection Ped Indication
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Lt. Turns
           Group                       n               X       p_hat
  Sample1 (Ped Indication)            175              39      0.223
 Sample2 (34 intersections)           181              39      0.215

                          null                            Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1    pooled_p        0.219 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper          SE       0.0439 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                              z        0.168 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.4331 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                       two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0       IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.866 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.567 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                   E-33
                               Straight Crashes at Signalized Intersection with Pedestrian Indication
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Signalized Intersection Ped Indication
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                     X= Straight
           Group                       n               X        p_hat
  Sample1 (Ped Indication)            175              36       0.206
 Sample2 (34 intersections)           181              40       0.221

                          null                            Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1    pooled_p         0.213 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper          SE       0.0434 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                              z        -0.352 ((D5-D6)/SE
                    Results
                  Upper Test
                     upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                             Significance Test
                   Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                    H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                      Pvalue               0.6375 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                  H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
              Two Sided Test
                       two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                    Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                 0.725 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z))

                  Lower Test
                     lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                    Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                      Pvalue                  0.363 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                    E-34
                                                                           Raised Crosswalks
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions

                                   Summary Statistics and User Input
                           Group                                             n                 X        p_hat
           Sample1 (Crashes at RT Chann Islands)                             48                19       0.396
 Sample2 (Crashes at RT Chann Islands with raised Crosswalk)                 23                 9       0.391

P1 = Probability of an accident at an approach with attached sidewalk.
P2 = Probability of an accident at all approaches of 34 intersections under consideration.

                                                               null                             Calculations
                                                             alpha                   0.1     pooled_p      0.394 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                                                         alternate                 upper           SE     0.1239 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                                                    z      0.037 ((D5-D6)/SE
                                                          Results
                                                       Upper Test
                                                          upper z                1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                 Significance Test
                                                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")        H0: P1 = P2
                                                          Pvalue                 0.4854 1-NORMSDIST(z)                                       H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                                                   Two Sided Test
                                                           two_z                   1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                                                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                                                          Pvalue                   0.971 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                                                       Lower Test
                                                          lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                                                         Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                                                          Pvalue                   0.515 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                                   E-35
                                                   Right Turn Crashes at Attached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                      Attached Walk
                                                                                               n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Rt. Turns
              Group                             n                X          p_hat
      Sample1 (Attached Walk)                  107               49         0.458
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                195               81         0.415

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.430 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0596 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z         0.714 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                     Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")            H0: P1 = P2
                            Pvalue               0.2375 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                          H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.475 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.763 NORMSDIST(z)




Do Not Reject H0.

                                                   Left Turn Crashes at Attached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                      Attached Walk
                                                                                               n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Lt. Turns
              Group                             n                X          p_hat
      Sample1 (Attached Walk)                  107              21          0.196
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                195              41          0.210

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.205 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0486 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -0.288 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                     Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")            H0: P1 = P2
                            Pvalue               0.6133 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                          H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.773 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.387 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                  E-36
Do Not Reject H0.

                                                   Straight Crashes at Attached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                     Attached Walk
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Straight
              Group                             n               X           p_hat
      Sample1 (Attached Walk)                  107              23          0.215
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                195              48          0.246

                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.235 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0510 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -0.612 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2
                            Pvalue               0.7296 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.541 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.270 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                    E-37
                                              Right Turn Crashes at Detached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                          Detatched Walk
                                                                                                    n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                             X= Rt. Turns
         Group                      n                  X               p_hat
Sample1 (Detatched Walk)            88                32               0.364
Sample2 (34 intersections)         195                81               0.415

                          null                              Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1      pooled_p           0.399 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper            SE          0.0629 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                z          -0.823 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z                 1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision        Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue                 0.7947 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.411 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                   -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision         Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                    0.205 NORMSDIST(z)




Do Not Reject H0.

                                              Left Turn Crashes at Detached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Detatched Walk
                                                                                                    n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                             X= Lt. Turns
         Group                      n                  X               p_hat
Sample1 (Detatched Walk)            88                20               0.227
Sample2 (34 intersections)         195                41               0.210

                          null                              Calculations
                        alpha                   0.1      pooled_p           0.216 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate                 upper            SE          0.0528 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                z           0.322 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z                 1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                    Significance Test
                 Decision        Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                           H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue                 0.3736 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                         H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.747 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                   -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision         Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                    0.626 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                      E-38
Do Not Reject H0.

                                               Through Crashes at Detached Sidewalk
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                         Detatched Walk
                                                                                                  n=All Crash Types
                      Summary Statistics and User Input                                           X= Straight
         Group                      n                  X             p_hat
Sample1 (Detatched Walk)            88                25             0.284
Sample2 (34 intersections)         195                48             0.246

                          null                            Calculations
                        alpha                 0.1      pooled_p           0.258 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                    alternate               upper            SE          0.0562 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                              z           0.675 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                         Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                                H0: P1 = P2
                    Pvalue          0.2498 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                              H1: P1 > P2       Ans

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue                0.500 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                  0.750 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-39
                                                 Right Turn Crashes at Divided Approach
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                    Divided Approach - Rt Turns
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Right Turns
            Group                         n               X            p_hat
  Sample1 (Divided Approach)            128               53           0.414
   Sample2 (34 intersections)           213               91           0.427

                            null                                 Calculations
                          alpha                 0.1   pooled_p                   0.422 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                      alternate               upper         SE                  0.0552 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                             z                  -0.238 ((D5-D6)/SE
                      Results
                    Upper Test
                       upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
                     Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                        Pvalue          0.5942 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                Two Sided Test
                         two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                      Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.812 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                    Lower Test
                       lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                      Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.406 NORMSDIST(z)

                                                  Left Turn Crashes at Divided Approach
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                    Divided Approach - Left Turns
                                                                                              n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Left Turns
            Group                         n               X            p_hat
  Sample1 (Divided Approach)            128               24           0.188
   Sample2 (34 intersections)           213               43           0.202

                            null                                 Calculations
                          alpha                 0.1   pooled_p                   0.196 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                      alternate               upper         SE                  0.0444 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                             z                  -0.324 ((D5-D6)/SE
                      Results
                    Upper Test
                       upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
                     Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                        Pvalue          0.6269 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                Two Sided Test
                         two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                      Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.746 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                    Lower Test
                       lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                      Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.373 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                   E-40
                                                  Through Crashes at Divided Approach
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                   Divided Approach - Lt Turns
                                                                                             n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                 X= Straight
            Group                         n               X           p_hat
  Sample1 (Divided Approach)            128               32          0.250
   Sample2 (34 intersections)           213               52          0.244

                            null                                 Calculations
                          alpha                 0.1   pooled_p                   0.246 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                      alternate               upper         SE                  0.0482 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                             z                   0.122 ((D5-D6)/SE
                      Results
                    Upper Test
                       upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                            Significance Test
                     Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                   H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                        Pvalue          0.4515 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                 H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                Two Sided Test
                         two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                      Decision Do Not Reject H0     IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.903 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                    Lower Test
                       lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                      Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                        Pvalue                0.548 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                     E-41
                    Right Turn Crashes at locations where Curb Parking within 250 feet of Intersection allowed
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                              Parking Allowed w/in 250' of Int.
                                                                                         n=All Crash Types
                         Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Rt. Turns
              Group                           n            X       p_hat
     Sample1 (Parking Allowed)               39            16      0.410
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213           91      0.427

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                 0.1   pooled_p           0.425 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate               upper         SE          0.0861 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z          -0.197 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                        Significance Test
                         Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")               H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue          0.5781 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                             H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.844 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.422 NORMSDIST(z)

                      Straight Crashes at locations where Curb Parking within 250 feet of Intersection allowed
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                Parking Allowed w/in 250' of Int.
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                         Summary Statistics and User Input                                 X=Straight
              Group                           n            X         p_hat
     Sample1 (Parking Allowed)                39           9         0.231
     Sample2 (34 intersections)              213           52        0.244

                                null                           Calculations
                              alpha                 0.1   pooled_p           0.242 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate               upper         SE          0.0746 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z          -0.179 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                        Significance Test
                         Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")               H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue          0.5711 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                             H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.858 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                0.429 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                 E-42
                                Right Turn Crashes at Approaches with No Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                  No Right Turn On Red
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Rt. Turns
               Group                            n            X         p_hat
      Sample1 (NoRightOnRed)                   26            14        0.538
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                188           81        0.431




                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.444 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.1040 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z         1.035 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.1503 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                            two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.301 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.850 NORMSDIST(z)

                                Left Turn Crashes at Approaches with No Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                 No Right Turn On Red
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                               X= Lt. Turns
               Group                            n            X         p_hat
      Sample1 (NoRightOnRed)                   26             3        0.115
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                188           39        0.207




                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.196 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0831 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z        -1.108 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.8660 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                            two_z                  1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.268 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue
                                                                  E-43
                                                    0.134 NORMSDIST(z)
                                 Straight Crashes at Approaches with No Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                  No Right Turn On Red
                                                                                            n=All Crash Types
                           Summary Statistics and User Input                                X= Straight
               Group                            n            X          p_hat
      Sample1 (NoRightOnRed)                   26             6         0.231
     Sample2 (34 intersections)                188           42         0.223




                                null                             Calculations
                              alpha                   0.1     pooled_p         0.224 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                          alternate                 upper           SE        0.0873 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                     z         0.084 ((D5-D6)/SE
                          Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                    Significance Test
                         Decision      Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")           H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                            Pvalue               0.4664 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                         H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                             two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                          Decision Do Not Reject H0      IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                 0.933 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                        Lower Test
                           lower z                 -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision       Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                            Pvalue                  0.534 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                    E-44
                              Right Turn Crashes at Approaches with Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                      Right Turn on Red
                                                                                       n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                 X= Rt. Turns
          Group                     n                 X     p_hat
  Sample1 (Right On Red)           162               67     0.414
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        188               81     0.431




                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1     pooled_p         0.423 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper           SE        0.0530 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                           z        -0.326 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.6278 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                   two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.744 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.372 NORMSDIST(z)

                               Left Turn Crashes at Approaches with Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                       Right Turn on Red
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Lt. Turns
          Group                     n                 X     p_hat
  Sample1 (Right On Red)           162               37     0.228
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        188               39     0.207




                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1     pooled_p         0.217 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper           SE        0.0442 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                           z         0.474 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.3178 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                   two_z                1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.636 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.682 NORMSDIST(z)
                                                                 E-45
                                Straight Crashes at Approaches with Right Turn on Red Prohibition
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                       Right Turn on Red
                                                                                        n=All Crash Types
                     Summary Statistics and User Input                                  X= Straight
          Group                     n                 X      p_hat
  Sample1 (Right On Red)           162               36      0.222
 Sample2 (34 intersections)        188               42      0.223




                        null                           Calculations
                      alpha                 0.1     pooled_p         0.223 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                  alternate               upper           SE        0.0446 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                           z        -0.026 ((D5-D6)/SE
                  Results
                Upper Test
                   upper z          1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                                  Significance Test
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")                         H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                    Pvalue          0.5106 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                                       H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
           Two Sided Test
                    two_z               1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alpha/2))
                 Decision Do Not Reject H0    IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                   Pvalue               0.979 2*(1-NORMSDIST(ABS(z)))

                Lower Test
                   lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                  Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                    Pvalue                0.489 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                   E-46
                                             Left Turn Crashes at Exclusive Left Turn Lanes
Significance Test for Difference in Proportions                                 Left Turn Lanes
                                                                                           n=All Crash Types
                       Summary Statistics and User Input                                   X= Left Turns
               Group                            n             X        p_hat
   Sample1 (Excl. Lt. Turn Lane)              157             34       0.217
     Sample2 (34 intersections)               213             43       0.202

                               null                          Calculations
                             alpha                  0.1   pooled_p      0.208 (C5+C6)/(B5+B6)
                         alternate                upper         SE     0.0427 SQRT(pooled_p*(1-pooled_p)*(1/B5 + 1/B6))
                                                                 z      0.344 ((D5-D6)/SE
                           Results
                        Upper Test
                           upper z               1.2816 (-)NORMSINV(alpha)                                Significance Test
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z>upper_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")       H0: P1 = P2       Ans
                           Pvalue                0.3655 1- NORMSDIST(z)                                     H1: P1 > P2

Other Tests
                    Two Sided Test
                            two_z                 1.645 ABS(NORMSINV(alph
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(ABS(z)>two_z), "Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H
                           Pvalue                 0.731 2*(1-NORMSDIST(AB

                        Lower Test
                           lower z               -1.282 NORMSINV(alpha)
                          Decision     Do Not Reject H0 IF(z<lower_z,"Reject H0", "Do Not Reject H0")
                           Pvalue                 0.635 NORMSDIST(z)




                                                                E-47
      APPENDIX F:


Turning Movement Datasheets




            F-1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name              : 17TH&ATHENSAM
                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date             : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         17TH ST                                     ATHENS                     17TH ST                                       ATHENS
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                    Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right               Peds   Left           Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      7       21     0                       6     1       0     1      0      0     20     1                 0     0               0     0        0        57
    07:15 AM     13       34     0                       1     4       0     0      0      0     31     3                 5     0               0     0        0        91
    07:30 AM      7       44     0                       5     5       0     2      0      0     32     4                 0     0               0     0        0        99
    07:45 AM      3       94     0                      39     3       0     4      0      0     55     3                 4     0               0     0        0       205
        Total    30      193     0                      51    13       0     7      0      0    138    11                 9     0               0     0        0       452

    08:00 AM      1        63                 0          6     2       0       1          2        0       49     9       3       0            0        0      0       136
    08:15 AM      0        58                 0          4     7       0       3          0        0       53     5       0       0            0        0      0       130
    08:30 AM      2        57                 0          6     4       0       3          1        0       48     6       3       0            0        0      0       130
    08:45 AM      3        63                 0         16     2       0       2          0        0       48     8       0       0            0        0      0       142
        Total     6       241                 0         32    15       0       9          3        0      198    28       6       0            0        0      0       538

  Grand Total    36       434                 0         83     28      0    16            3        0      336     39     15       0            0        0      0       990
   Apprch %     6.5      78.5                 0         15   59.6      0    34          6.4        0      86.2    10    3.8       0            0        0      0
     Total %    3.6      43.8                 0        8.4    2.8      0    1.6         0.3        0      33.9   3.9    1.5       0            0        0      0


                                                                                   17TH ST
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                             352       553         905


                                                                               0  434           36   83
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                             0


                                       0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                   Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                  16


                                                                                                                                                 75




                                                                                        North
                                                  0
                                   Peds Right Thru
                       ATHENS




                                                                                                                                               ATHENS
                             0
                          In




                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                            4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                   47




                                                                            4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 28
                               0




                                                                            Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                      0




                                                                                                                                                122
                                                                                                                                       3




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               0 336    39   15


                                                                             462       390         852
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                                   17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                              File Name                    : 17TH&ATHENSAM
                                                                                                              Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date                   : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                              Page No                      :2

                     17TH ST                          ATHENS                               17TH ST                                          ATHENS
                    Southbound                       Westbound                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru            Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM       3    94      0    39     136     3   0    4    0           7         0    55      3      4       62          0             0       0      0           0        205
 08:00 AM       1    63      0     6      70     2   0    1    2           5         0    49      9      3       61          0             0       0      0           0        136
 08:15 AM       0    58      0     4      62     7   0    3    0          10         0    53      5      0       58          0             0       0      0           0        130
 08:30 AM       2    57      0     6      65     4   0    3    1           8         0    48      6      3       57          0             0       0      0           0        130
 Total Volume   6 272        0    55     333    16   0   11    3          30         0   205     23     10      238          0             0       0      0           0        601
 % App. Total 1.8 81.7       0 16.5           53.3   0 36.7   10               0 86.1           9.7    4.2                   0             0       0      0
        PHF .500 .723 .000 .353         .612 .571 .000 .688 .375       .750 .000 .932 .639 .625                 .960 .000 .000 .000 .000                         .000         .733

                                                                      17TH ST
                                                              Out        In           Total
                                                               216        333          549


                                                                0  272                6  55
                                                            Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                          Peak Hour Data
                            0


                                      0




                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                        Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                11


                                                                                                                                                 29
                                                                         North
                                                 0
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               ATHENS
                      ATHENS

                            0
                         In




                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                           0




                                                                                                                                                   30
                                                                                                                             Left Peds


                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                               16
                              0
                        Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                  59
                                                                                                                                     3




                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                 0 205    23   10


                                                               288        238          526
                                                              Out        In           Total
                                                                      17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name              : 17TH&ATHENSPM
                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date             : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         17TH ST                                     ATHENS                     17TH ST                                       ATHENS
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                    Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right               Peds   Left           Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      8       22     0                       0     0       0     1      0      0     20     1                 6     0               0     0        0        58
    04:15 PM     13       35     0                       0     4       0     0      2      0     32     2                 5     0               0     0        0        93
    04:30 PM      7       45     0                       0     4       0     3      0      0     30     4                14     0               0     0        0       107
    04:45 PM      3       87     0                       0     2       0     3      1      0     53     2                49     0               0     0        0       200
        Total    31      189     0                       0    10       0     7      3      0    135     9                74     0               0     0        0       458

    05:00 PM      1        58                 0          0     2       0       1          3        0       48     8      12       0            0        0      0       133
    05:15 PM      0        57                 0          0     7       0       4          0        0       53     5       8       0            0        0      0       134
    05:30 PM      3        53                 0          0     4       0       2          1        0       46     6      11       0            0        0      0       126
    05:45 PM      2        67                 0          0     2       0       2          0        0       45     8      18       0            0        0      0       144
        Total     6       235                 0          0    15       0       9          4        0      192    27      49       0            0        0      0       537

  Grand Total    37       424                 0          0     25      0    16         7           0      327     36    123       0            0        0      0       995
   Apprch %       8        92                 0          0   52.1      0   33.3     14.6           0      67.3   7.4   25.3       0            0        0      0
     Total %    3.7      42.6                 0          0    2.5      0    1.6      0.7           0      32.9   3.6   12.4       0            0        0      0


                                                                                   17TH ST
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                             343       461         804


                                                                               0  424           37    0
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                             0


                                       0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                   Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                  16


                                                                                                                                                 73




                                                                                        North
                                                  0
                                   Peds Right Thru
                       ATHENS




                                                                                                                                               ATHENS
                             0
                          In




                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                            4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                   48




                                                                            4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 25
                               0




                                                                            Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                      0




                                                                                                                                                121
                                                                                                                                       7




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               0 327    36  123


                                                                             449       486         935
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                                   17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                           File Name                    : 17TH&ATHENSPM
                                                                                                                           Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date                   : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                           Page No                      :2

                     17TH ST                                      ATHENS                                17TH ST                                          ATHENS
                    Southbound                                   Westbound                             Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                  App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru            Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM       3    87      0     0     90      2   0    3    1                        6         0    53     2  49          104          0             0       0      0           0        200
 05:00 PM       1    58      0     0     59      2   0    1    3                        6         0    48     8  12           68          0             0       0      0           0        133
 05:15 PM       0    57      0     0     57      7   0    4    0                       11         0    53     5    8          66          0             0       0      0           0        134
 05:30 PM       3    53      0     0     56      4   0    2    1                        7         0    46     6  11           63          0             0       0      0           0        126
 Total Volume   7 255        0     0    262     15   0  10     5                       30         0   200    21  80          301          0             0       0      0           0        593
 % App. Total 2.7 97.3       0     0            50   0 33.3 16.7                            0 66.4            7 26.6                 0    0    0    0
      PHF .583 .733 .000 .000                        .728 .536 .000 .625 .417       .682 .000 .943 .656 .408                 .724 .000 .000 .000 .000                         .000         .741

                                                                                   17TH ST
                                                                           Out        In           Total
                                                                            210        262          472


                                                                             0  255                7   0
                                                                         Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                       Peak Hour Data
                            0


                                      0




                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                        Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                                             10


                                                                                                                                                              28
                                                                                      North
                                                 0
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                            ATHENS
                      ATHENS

                            0
                         In




                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                          Left Peds


                                                                      Unshifted
                                                                                                                                            15
                              0
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                               58
                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0 200    21   80


                                                                            270        301          571
                                                                           Out        In           Total
                                                                                   17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                         File Name        : 28TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                             28TH                                       ARAPAHOE                       28TH                                        ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     23        192    21                        0    35       101    21      0     46    170     41                  0    10              60    23              0       743
    07:15 AM     26        180    23                        1    30        83    15      0     39    241     35                  4    13              67    38              0       795
    07:30 AM     37        198    16                        1    29       133    30      2     42    273     53                  0     8              97    32              0       951
    07:45 AM     35        226    10                        0    39       141    47      1     29    301     47                  0     5             127    43              0     1051
        Total   121        796    70                        2   133       458   113      3    156    985    176                  4    36             351  136               0     3540

    08:00 AM     54          222            17              0    20      141      32           0       35       317     36       0     6             91             42      0     1013
    08:15 AM     40          216            14              0    37      166      48           0       34       289     51       2     9            142             29      0     1077
    08:30 AM     38          204            10              0    60      134      56           0       33       295     49       1    18            153             46      0     1097
    08:45 AM     54          207            17              0    45      188      53           0       46       288     45       0    11            146             43      0     1143
        Total   186          849            58              0   162      629     189           0      148      1189    181       3    44            532            160      0     4330

  Grand Total    307       1645        128                  2    295    1087    302            3      304      2174    357       7    80           883            296       0     7870
   Apprch %     14.7          79        6.1               0.1   17.5     64.4   17.9         0.2     10.7       76.5   12.6    0.2   6.4           70.1           23.5      0
     Total %      3.9       20.9        1.6                 0     3.7    13.8    3.8           0       3.9      27.6    4.5    0.1     1           11.2            3.8      0


                                                                                             28TH
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                 2556         2082     4638


                                                                                  128 1645          307    2
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2778


                                         80




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                        302 1087


                                                                                                                                                      1547
                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   883
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                      ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1259
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                         1687
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              296




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       295
                        1519




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               3234
                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 304 2174   357    7


                                                                                 2236         2842     5078
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                             28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name                : 28TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                                                       Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date               : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                  :2

                       28TH                                        ARAPAHOE                                 28TH                                         ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      54 222       17     0    293     20 141   32    0                      193          35 317      36       0     388           6         91       42             0      139        1013
 08:15 AM      40 216       14     0    270     37 166   48    0                      251          34 289      51       2     376           9        142       29             0      180        1077
 08:30 AM      38 204       10     0    252     60 134   56    0                      250          33 295      49       1     378          18        153       46             0      217        1097
 08:45 AM      54 207       17     0    278     45 188   53    0                      286          46 288      45       0     379          11        146       43             0      200        1143
 Total Volume 186 849       58     0 1093 162 629 189          0                      980         148 1189    181       3    1521          44        532      160             0      736        4330
 % App. Total  17 77.7 5.3         0          16.5 64.2 19.3   0                            9.7 78.2 11.9  0.2                         6 72.3 21.7    0
      PHF .861 .956 .853 .000                          .933 .675 .836 .844 .000       .857 .804 .938 .887 .375                 .980 .611 .869 .870 .000                              .848         .947

                                                                                        28TH
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                             1422        1093        2515


                                                                              58  849             186    0
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1571


                                       44




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                              189



                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                            899
                                                                                        North
                                                 532




                                                                                                                                                           ARAPAHOE
                          ARAPAHOE




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   629
                               736
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM

                                                                                                                                                               980
                                            160




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             162

                                                                        Unshifted
                       835
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                    1879
                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             148 1189   181    3


                                                                             1171        1521        2692
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                                        28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name          : 28TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date         : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No            :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                      ARAPAHOE                       28TH                                         ARAPAHOE
                        Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left            Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     76       293     33                       0    80      140    49      0     40    262     23                  3    56              160    47              0     1262
    04:15 PM     55       295     30                       0   108      145    42      0     47    299     24                  1    69              166    39              0     1320
    04:30 PM     83       288     24                       1    82      124    61      1     41    267     40                  1    76              157    71              1     1318
    04:45 PM     59       274     23                       2    28      104   123      2     40    298     34                  0    45              202    60              0     1294
        Total   273      1150    110                       3   298      513   275      3    168 1126      121                  5   246              685  217               1     5194

    05:00 PM     67        298         29                  0    80     161      52           2       37       275     16       4    48             172             70      0     1311
    05:15 PM     61        287         26                  1    83     157      50           5       45       320     14       0    63             193             41      1     1347
    05:30 PM     51        289         28                  2    95     132      46           0       23       321     28       5    37             152             64      2     1275
    05:45 PM     59        255         23                  0    77     181      50           2       52       313     26       4    49             168             45      0     1304
        Total   238       1129        106                  3   335     631     198           9      157      1229     84      13   197             685            220      3     5237

  Grand Total   511       2279        216                  6   633    1144    473          12       325      2355    205      18    443           1370           437        4   10431
   Apprch %       17       75.7        7.2               0.2     28    50.6   20.9         0.5     11.2       81.1    7.1    0.6   19.7            60.8          19.4     0.2
     Total %     4.9       21.8        2.1               0.1    6.1      11    4.5         0.1       3.1      22.6      2    0.2     4.2           13.1           4.2       0


                                                                                           28TH
                                                                               Out           In      Total
                                                                               3271         3012     6283


                                                                                216 2279          511    6
                                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                           3939


                                       443




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                       473 1144


                                                                                                                                                     2086
                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                           North
                                             437 1370
                           ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                     ARAPAHOE
                                      Peds Right Thru
                               2254
                                In




                                                                                                                                                        2262
                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                               4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                               4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      633
                       1685




                                                                               Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                         4




                                                                                                                                                              4348
                                                                                                                                            12




                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               325 2355   205   18


                                                                               3349         2903     6252
                                                                               Out           In      Total
                                                                                           28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name                : 28TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                                                       Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date               : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                  :2

                       28TH                                        ARAPAHOE                                 28TH                                         ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      83 288       24     1    396     82 124   61    1                     268           41 267      40       1     349          76        157       71             1     305         1318
 04:45 PM      59 274       23     2    358     28 104 123     2                     257           40 298      34       0     372          45        202       60             0     307         1294
 05:00 PM      67 298       29     0    394     80 161   52    2                     295           37 275      16       4     332          48        172       70             0     290         1311
 05:15 PM      61 287       26     1    375     83 157   50    5                     295           45 320      14       0     379          63        193       41             1     298         1347
 Total Volume 270 1147 102         4 1523 273 546 286        10                     1115          163 1160    104       5    1432         232        724      242             2    1200         5270
 % App. Total 17.7 75.3    6.7 0.3            24.5   49 25.7 0.9                           11.4   81   7.3 0.3                      19.3 60.3 20.2  0.2
      PHF .813 .962 .879 .500                          .961 .822 .848 .581 .500       .945 .906 .906 .650 .313                 .945 .763 .896 .852 .500                              .977         .978

                                                                                        28TH
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                             1678        1523        3201


                                                                             102 1147             270    4
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          2011


                                      232




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                              286


                                                                                                                                                           1098
                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                        North
                                                 724




                                                                                                                                                           ARAPAHOE
                          ARAPAHOE




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   546
                              1200
                               In




                                                                                                                                                              1115
                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                            242




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             273

                                                                        Unshifted
                       811
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                    2213
                                                                                                                                                   10




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             163 1160   104    5


                                                                             1662        1432        3094
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                                        28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name             : 28TH&CANYONAM
                                                                                                                      Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No               :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           28TH                                   CANYON                       28TH                                          CANYON
                       Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right        Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      6      167     41                   1     5       6     5      1     77    148    12                   4    33              10    31           0       547
    07:15 AM      5      167     41                   1     7      15     4      2     80    184    17                   4    33              13    37           0       610
    07:30 AM     10      214     58                   2     3      19     2      1     86    197     8                   2    39              14    53           0       708
    07:45 AM     10      251     74                   2    10      15    10      3    112    246    21                   1    46              23    63           0       887
        Total    31      799    214                   6    25      55    21      7    355    775    58                  11   151              60   184           0     2752

    08:00 AM      8       218     57                  1     8      16      9           1      118       220     13       2    65             27        64        0      827
    08:15 AM     13       203     49                  3    17      19      5           5      107       249     15       5    62             21        70        0      843
    08:30 AM     12       176     58                  2    10      29     13           4      109       240     15       3    57             24        66        0      818
    08:45 AM     10       180     73                  2    11      21      4           2       92       243     15       1    73             41        53        0      821
        Total    43       777    237                  8    46      85     31          12      426       952     58      11   257            113       253        0     3309

  Grand Total    74     1576     451                 14     71    140     52          19      781      1727    116      22    408           173        437       0     6061
   Apprch %     3.5      74.5    21.3               0.7   25.2   49.6   18.4         6.7     29.5       65.3    4.4    0.8   40.1            17       42.9       0
     Total %    1.2        26     7.4               0.2    1.2    2.3    0.9         0.3     12.9       28.5    1.9    0.4     6.7           2.9        7.2      0


                                                                                     28TH
                                                                         Out           In      Total
                                                                         2187         2115     4302


                                                                          451 1576           74   14
                                                                        Right Thru         Left Peds
                         2390


                                  408




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                  52


                                                                                                                                               363




                                                                                     North
                                             173
                                 Peds Right Thru
                       CANYON




                                                                                                                                              CANYON
                                                                                                                                      140
                          1018
                           In




                                                                                                                                                In




                                                                         4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                 282
                                        437




                                                                         4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 71
                         1372




                                                                         Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                              Total
                                    0




                                                                                                                                               645
                                                                                                                                      19




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                         781 1727   116   22


                                                                         2084         2646     4730
                                                                         Out           In      Total
                                                                                     28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name                    : 28TH&CANYONAM
                                                                                                                        Site Code                    : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date                   : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No                      :2

                       28TH                                    CANYON                                  28TH                                           CANYON
                    Southbound                                Westbound                             Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru            Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      10 251       74     2    337     10   15  10    3                  38         112   246    21       1     380          46            23     63       0      132         887
 08:00 AM       8 218       57     1    284      8   16    9   1                  34         118   220    13       2     353          65            27     64       0      156         827
 08:15 AM      13 203       49     3    268     17   19    5   5                  46         107   249    15       5     376          62            21     70       0      153         843
 08:30 AM      12 176       58     2    248     10   29  13    4                  56         109   240    15       3     367          57            24     66       0      147         818
 Total Volume  43 848 238          8 1137       45   79  37  13                  174         446   955     64     11    1476         230            95    263       0      588        3375
 % App. Total 3.8 74.6 20.9 0.7               25.9 45.4 21.3 7.5                      30.2 64.7           4.3    0.7           39.1 16.2 44.7    0
      PHF .827 .845 .804 .667                     .843 .662 .681 .712 .650       .777 .945 .959 .762 .550                 .971 .885 .880 .939 .000                         .942         .951

                                                                                   28TH
                                                                        Out          In         Total
                                                                        1222        1137        2359


                                                                        238  848              43    8
                                                                      Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        1351


                                 230




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                        Total




                                Left




                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                          37


                                                                                                                                                          202
                                                                                   North
                                             95
                                Peds Right Thru
                      CANYON




                                                                                                                                                         CANYON
                          588




                                                                                                                                               79
                         In




                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                            174
                                       263




                                                                                                                                       Left Peds


                                                                   Unshifted
                                                                                                                                         45
                         763
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                   0




                                                                                                                                                          376
                                                                                                                                              13




                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                        446  955    64   11


                                                                        1156        1476        2632
                                                                        Out          In         Total
                                                                                   28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name            : 28TH&CANYONPM
                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No              :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           28TH                                    CANYON                       28TH                                         CANYON
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                 Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                 Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left          Thru Right       Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     28      269     45                   7    27       29    18      3     82    290    24                  11    73             48   101          2     1057
    04:15 PM     17      231     40                   8    40       43    20      9     79    305    22                   4    85             68   112          3     1086
    04:30 PM     21      293     49                   8    21       44    17      5     73    295    23                   5    66             52    88          6     1066
    04:45 PM     20      242     53                   7    32       36    22      9     79    267    18                   2    94             57   101          2     1041
        Total    86     1035    187                  30   120      152    77     26    313 1157      87                  22   318            225   402         13     4250

    05:00 PM     20      276      51                  7    39       43     26           4       83       281     17       6    71            51        86       9     1070
    05:15 PM     27      252      65                  7    52       30     17           9       99       310     21       6    94            62       104       8     1163
    05:30 PM     28      285      45                  7    29       39     17           7       67       280     20       5    91            53        94       6     1073
    05:45 PM     21      257      65                  5    34       47     18           8       85       324     12       5    80            55        94       8     1118
        Total    96     1070     226                 26   154      159     78          28      334      1195     70      22   336           221       378      31     4424

  Grand Total   182     2105     413                 56    274     311   155           54      647      2352    157      44   654           446       780      44     8674
   Apprch %      6.6     76.4      15                 2   34.5    39.2   19.5         6.8     20.2       73.5    4.9    1.4     34          23.2      40.5     2.3
     Total %     2.1     24.3     4.8               0.6     3.2    3.6    1.8         0.6       7.5      27.1    1.8    0.5    7.5           5.1         9     0.5


                                                                                      28TH
                                                                          Out           In      Total
                                                                          3161         2756     5917


                                                                           413 2105          182   56
                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3295


                                  654




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                 155



                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                               785




                                                                                      North
                                             446
                                 Peds Right Thru
                       CANYON




                                                                                                                                              CANYON
                                                                                                                                      311
                          1924
                           In




                                                                                                                                                In




                                                                          4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                 794
                                        780




                                                                          4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                274
                         1371




                                                                          Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                              Total
                                   44




                                                                                                                                              1579
                                                                                                                                      54




                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                          647 2352   157   44


                                                                          3159         3200     6359
                                                                          Out           In      Total
                                                                                      28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name                   : 28TH&CANYONPM
                                                                                                                        Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date                  : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No                     :2

                       28TH                                    CANYON                                  28TH                                          CANYON
                    Southbound                                Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM      20 276       51     7    354     39   43  26    4                 112          83 281      17       6     387          71         51     86       9      217        1070
 05:15 PM      27 252       65     7    351     52   30  17    9                 108          99 310      21       6     436          94         62    104       8      268        1163
 05:30 PM      28 285       45     7    365     29   39  17    7                  92          67 280      20       5     372          91         53     94       6      244        1073
 05:45 PM      21 257       65     5    348     34   47  18    8                 107          85 324      12       5     426          80         55     94       8      237        1118
 Total Volume  96 1070 226        26 1418 154 159        78  28                  419         334 1195      70     22    1621         336        221    378      31      966        4424
 % App. Total 6.8 75.5 15.9 1.8               36.8 37.9 18.6 6.7                      20.6 73.7           4.3    1.4           34.8 22.9 39.1  3.2
      PHF .857 .939 .869 .929                     .971 .740 .846 .750 .778       .935 .843 .922 .833 .917                 .929 .894 .891 .909 .861                      .901         .951

                                                                                   28TH
                                                                        Out          In         Total
                                                                        1609        1418        3027


                                                                        226 1070              96   26
                                                                      Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        1685


                                 336




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                        Total




                                Left




                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                          78


                                                                                                                                                       387
                                                                                   North
                                            221
                                Peds Right Thru
                      CANYON




                                                                                                                                                      CANYON
                                                                                                                                              159
                          966
                         In




                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM

                                                                                                                                                         419
                                       378




                                                                                                                                       Left Peds
                                                                                                                                        154

                                                                   Unshifted
                         719
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                  31




                                                                                                                                                       806
                                                                                                                                              28




                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                        334 1195    70   22


                                                                        1602        1621        3223
                                                                        Out          In         Total
                                                                                   28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name        : 28TH&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                       COLORADO                       28TH                                       COLORADO
                        Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                Peds   Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      9       185    12                        0    14        38     2      0     40    269    3                   0     6              18    28              0       624
    07:15 AM      9       237    12                        2    10        42     1      1     51    276    4                   2     5              19    27              1       699
    07:30 AM     10       269    22                        1    14        81     4      2     81    362    1                   3     8              25    21              0       904
    07:45 AM     13       278    38                        3    14       105    13      1    102    419    0                   3     5              28    32              3     1057
        Total    41       969    84                        6    52       266    20      4    274 1326      8                   8    24              90  108               4     3284

    08:00 AM     25        224         28                  2     10      78      14           1       82       423     0       0    11             30             30      0      958
    08:15 AM     22        280         26                  3     17      71       7           2       85       358     2       2    11             30             28      1      945
    08:30 AM     10        284         29                  4     13      72      12           2       87       356     3       0    11             30             30      0      943
    08:45 AM     15        220         24                  5     15      83       6           3      112       356     0       4    13             21             29      0      906
        Total    72       1008        107                 14     55     304      39           8      366      1493     5       6    46            111            117      1     3752

  Grand Total   113       1977        191                 20    107      570    59           12      640      2819    13      14    70            201           225        5    7036
   Apprch %      4.9       85.9        8.3               0.9   14.3     76.2    7.9         1.6     18.4       80.9   0.4    0.4    14            40.1          44.9       1
     Total %     1.6       28.1        2.7               0.3     1.5     8.1    0.8         0.2       9.1      40.1   0.2    0.2     1             2.9           3.2     0.1


                                                                                            28TH
                                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                                2948         2301     5249


                                                                                 191 1977          113   20
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                           1902


                                        70




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                       59


                                                                                                                                                     327




                                                                                            North
                                                  201




                                                                                                                                                    COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           570
                                501
                               In




                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                         748
                                             225




                                                                                4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     107
                       1401




                                                                                Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                         5




                                                                                                                                                             1075
                                                                                                                                           12




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                640 2819    13   14


                                                                                2309         3486     5795
                                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                                            28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name                 : 28TH&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                                      Site Code                 : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date                : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No                   :2

                       28TH                                        COLORADO                                 28TH                                         COLORADO
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      13 278       38     3    332     14 105   13    1                      133         102 419        0      3     524           5         28       32             3       68        1057
 08:00 AM      25 224       28     2    279     10   78  14    1                      103          82 423        0      0     505          11         30       30             0       71         958
 08:15 AM      22 280       26     3    331     17   71    7   2                       97          85 358        2      2     447          11         30       28             1       70         945
 08:30 AM      10 284       29     4    327     13   72  12    2                       99          87 356        3      0     446          11         30       30             0       71         943
 Total Volume  70 1066 121        12 1269       54 326   46    6                      432         356 1556       5      5    1922          38        118      120             4      280        3903
 % App. Total 5.5    84 9.5 0.9               12.5 75.5 10.6 1.4                           18.5   81   0.3 0.3                      13.6 42.1 42.9  1.4
      PHF .700 .938 .796 .750                          .956 .794 .776 .821 .750       .812 .873 .920 .417 .417                 .917 .864 .983 .938 .333                              .986         .923

                                                                                        28TH
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                             1640        1269        2909


                                                                             121 1066              70   12
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1083


                                       38




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                               46


                                                                                                                                                            193
                                                                                        North
                                                 118




                                                                                                                                                           COLORADO
                          COLORADO




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   326
                               280
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                               432
                                            120




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds


                                                                        Unshifted
                                                                                                                                              54
                       803
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                     625
                                                                                                                                                    6




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             356 1556     5    5


                                                                             1240        1922        3162
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                                        28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name        : 28TH&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                       COLORADO                       28TH                                       COLORADO
                        Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                Peds   Left           Thru Right            Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     34       333     30                       0    27        44    13      2     56    289     2                  2    23              71  104                2     1032
    04:15 PM     30       349     32                       5    21        71    15      2     64    345     9                  1    32              87    98               4     1165
    04:30 PM     33       330     29                       0    33        60    12      0     77    310     2                  0    26             105  125                3     1145
    04:45 PM     32       441     27                       0    41        47    17      0     82    374     5                  4    41             102  105                4     1322
        Total   129      1453    118                       5   122       222    57      4    279 1318      18                  7   122             365  432               13     4664

    05:00 PM     35        349         24                  2    39       76      11           3       94       321     5       2    49             76             87       0     1173
    05:15 PM     16        387         31                  4    32       77      16           4       80       373     5       4    30             89             73       0     1221
    05:30 PM     28        341         22                  1    34       58       8           1       61       316     6       1    46             89             84       0     1096
    05:45 PM     25        421         24                  0    26       40      17           1       55       334     4       0    29             72             71       1     1120
        Total   104       1498        101                  7   131      251      52           9      290      1344    20       7   154            326            315       1     4610

  Grand Total   233       2951        219                 12    253      473   109           13      569      2662    38      14   276            691            747       14    9274
   Apprch %      6.8       86.4        6.4               0.4   29.8     55.8   12.9         1.5     17.3       81.1   1.2    0.4    16             40           43.2      0.8
     Total %     2.5       31.8        2.4               0.1     2.7     5.1    1.2         0.1       6.1      28.7   0.4    0.2     3             7.5            8.1     0.2


                                                                                            28TH
                                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                                3047         3415     6462


                                                                                 219 2951          233   12
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2989


                                       276




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                      109



                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     962




                                                                                            North
                                                  691




                                                                                                                                                    COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           473
                               1728
                                In




                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                         848
                                             747




                                                                                4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     253
                       1261




                                                                                Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                        14




                                                                                                                                                             1810
                                                                                                                                           13




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                569 2662    38   14


                                                                                3951         3283     7234
                                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                                            28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name                : 28TH&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date               : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No                  :2

                       28TH                                        COLORADO                                 28TH                                         COLORADO
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru         Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM       33 330      29     0    392     33   60 12     0                      105          77 310       2       0     389          26 105 125                        3      259        1145
 04:45 PM       32 441      27     0    500     41   47 17     0                      105          82 374       5       4     465          41 102 105                        4      252        1322
 05:00 PM       35 349      24     2    410     39   76 11     3                      129          94 321       5       2     422          49  76   87                       0      212        1173
 05:15 PM       16 387      31     4    438     32   77 16     4                      129          80 373       5       4     462          30  89   73                       0      192        1221
 Total Volume 116 1507 111         6 1740 145 260       56     7                      468         333 1378     17      10    1738         146 372 390                        7      915        4861
 % App. Total  6.7 86.6 6.4 0.3                 31 55.6 12 1.5                             19.2 79.3            1     0.6                  16 40.7 42.6
                                                                                                                                                    0.8
      PHF .829 .854 .895 .375                          .870 .884 .844 .824 .438       .907 .886 .921 .850 .625                 .934 .745 .886 .780 .438                             .883         .919

                                                                                        28TH
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                             1580        1740        3320


                                                                             111 1507             116    6
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1619


                                      146




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                               56


                                                                                                                                                           505
                                                                                        North
                                                 372




                                                                                                                                                          COLORADO
                          COLORADO




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   260
                               915
                              In




                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM

                                                                                                                                                              468
                                            390




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             145

                                                                        Unshifted
                       704
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                        7




                                                                                                                                                                    973
                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             333 1378    17   10


                                                                             2042        1738        3780
                                                                             Out          In         Total
                                                                                        28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                  BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right            Peds   Left          Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2         1    10                    2     0     111     4      0      0      0     0              0     6            136     0                   0       272
    07:15 AM      2         0     9                    2     0     150     3      0      0      0     0              0    10            188     1                   0       365
    07:30 AM      0         0    19                    0     0     220     6      1      0      0     0              0    10            225     0                   0       481
    07:45 AM      1         0    21                    1     0     258     4      1      0      0     0              0    18            281     3                   0       588
        Total     5         1    59                    5     0     739    17      2      0      0     0              0    44            830     4                   0     1706

    08:00 AM      1           0        15              2     0     232       6           0        0      0   0       0    14            271                 2       0      543
    08:15 AM      3           0        19              2     2     270       4           0        0      0   0       0    17            262                 0       0      579
    08:30 AM      0           0        17              0     0     303       2           0        0      0   0       0    18            267                 1       0      608
    08:45 AM      4           0        21              1     0     275       8           1        0      0   0       0    22            262                 0       0      594
        Total     8           0        72              5     2    1080      20           1        0      0   0       0    71           1062                 3       0     2324

  Grand Total    13          1     131                10     2    1819      37           3        0      0   0       0   115           1892                  7      0     4030
   Apprch %     8.4        0.6    84.5               6.5   0.1     97.7       2        0.2        0      0   0       0    5.7           93.9               0.3      0
     Total %    0.3          0     3.3               0.2     0     45.1     0.9        0.1        0      0   0       0    2.9           46.9               0.2      0


                                                                                  29TH ST
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                            152       155         307


                                                                            131     1          13   10
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3964


                                   115




                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                          1905
                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                             37 1819




                                                                                       North
                                           7 1892
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2014
                           In




                                                                                                                                            1861
                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                           4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                           4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                          Left Peds
                                                                                                                              2
                         1950




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                   3766
                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    0    0


                                                                             10         0           10
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                                  29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name                       : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                Site Code                       : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No                         :2

                     29TH ST                       BASELINE                                   29TH ST                                            BASELINE
                    Southbound                     Westbound                                 Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Left Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM       1      0    15     2      18      0 232    6   0         238            0        0      0      0           0      14 271                2            0     287          543
 08:15 AM       3      0    19     2      24      2 270    4   0         276            0        0      0      0           0      17 262                0            0     279          579
 08:30 AM       0      0    17     0      17      0 303    2   0         305            0        0      0      0           0      18 267                1            0     286          608
 08:45 AM       4      0    21     1      26      0 275    8   1         284            0        0      0      0           0      22 262                0            0     284          594
 Total Volume   8      0    72     5      85      2 1080  20   1        1103            0        0      0      0           0      71 1062               3            0    1136         2324
 % App. Total 9.4      0 84.7 5.9               0.2 97.9 1.8 0.1                        0        0      0      0                 6.2 93.5             0.3            0
        PHF .500 .000 .857 .625         .817 .250 .891 .625 .250          .904 .000 .000 .000 .000                    .000 .807 .980 .375 .000                              .990         .956

                                                                         29TH ST
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                91            85          176


                                                               72     0                  8   5
                                                            Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                          Peak Hour Data
                        2288


                                   71




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                        Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                  1070
                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                      20 1080
                                                                            North
                                          3 1062
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  BASELINE
                      BASELINE

                         1136
                          In




                                                                                                                                                    1103
                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds


                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                       2
                        1152
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                    0




                                                                                                                                                           2173
                                                                                                                                           1




                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                 0    0    0    0


                                                                    5          0             5
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                         29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                  BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right            Peds   Left          Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2         1    10                    2     0     111     4      0      0      0     0              0     6            136     0                   0       272
    07:15 AM      2         0     9                    2     0     150     3      0      0      0     0              0    10            188     1                   0       365
    07:30 AM      0         0    19                    0     0     220     6      1      0      0     0              0    10            225     0                   0       481
    07:45 AM      1         0    21                    1     0     258     4      1      0      0     0              0    18            281     3                   0       588
        Total     5         1    59                    5     0     739    17      2      0      0     0              0    44            830     4                   0     1706

    08:00 AM      1           0        15              2     0     232       6           0        0      0   0       0    14            271                 2       0      543
    08:15 AM      3           0        19              2     2     270       4           0        0      0   0       0    17            262                 0       0      579
    08:30 AM      0           0        17              0     0     303       2           0        0      0   0       0    18            267                 1       0      608
    08:45 AM      4           0        21              1     0     275       8           1        0      0   0       0    22            262                 0       0      594
        Total     8           0        72              5     2    1080      20           1        0      0   0       0    71           1062                 3       0     2324

  Grand Total    13          1     131                10     2    1819      37           3        0      0   0       0   115           1892                  7      0     4030
   Apprch %     8.4        0.6    84.5               6.5   0.1     97.7       2        0.2        0      0   0       0    5.7           93.9               0.3      0
     Total %    0.3          0     3.3               0.2     0     45.1     0.9        0.1        0      0   0       0    2.9           46.9               0.2      0


                                                                                  29TH ST
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                            152       155         307


                                                                            131     1          13   10
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3964


                                   115




                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                          1905
                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                             37 1819




                                                                                       North
                                           7 1892
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2014
                           In




                                                                                                                                            1861
                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                           4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                           4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                          Left Peds
                                                                                                                              2
                         1950




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                   3766
                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    0    0


                                                                             10         0           10
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                                  29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name                       : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                Site Code                       : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No                         :2

                     29TH ST                       BASELINE                                   29TH ST                                            BASELINE
                    Southbound                     Westbound                                 Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Left Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM       1      0    15     2      18      0 232    6   0         238            0        0      0      0           0      14 271                2            0     287          543
 08:15 AM       3      0    19     2      24      2 270    4   0         276            0        0      0      0           0      17 262                0            0     279          579
 08:30 AM       0      0    17     0      17      0 303    2   0         305            0        0      0      0           0      18 267                1            0     286          608
 08:45 AM       4      0    21     1      26      0 275    8   1         284            0        0      0      0           0      22 262                0            0     284          594
 Total Volume   8      0    72     5      85      2 1080  20   1        1103            0        0      0      0           0      71 1062               3            0    1136         2324
 % App. Total 9.4      0 84.7 5.9               0.2 97.9 1.8 0.1                        0        0      0      0                 6.2 93.5             0.3            0
        PHF .500 .000 .857 .625         .817 .250 .891 .625 .250          .904 .000 .000 .000 .000                    .000 .807 .980 .375 .000                              .990         .956

                                                                         29TH ST
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                91            85          176


                                                               72     0                  8   5
                                                            Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                          Peak Hour Data
                        2288


                                   71




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                        Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                  1070
                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                      20 1080
                                                                            North
                                          3 1062
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  BASELINE
                      BASELINE

                         1136
                          In




                                                                                                                                                    1103
                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds


                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                       2
                        1152
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                    0




                                                                                                                                                           2173
                                                                                                                                           1




                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                 0    0    0    0


                                                                    5          0             5
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                         29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                    BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right              Peds   Left          Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0         0    17                    0     0     266     4      0      0      0     1                0    34            222     0                 0       544
    04:15 PM      1         0    20                    0     0     330     8      0      0      0     0                0    17            293     0                 1       670
    04:30 PM      5         0    16                    0     0     336    10      2      0      0     0                0    19            288     0                 1       677
    04:45 PM      7         0    26                    0     1     368     8      3      0      0     0                0    13            258     1                 0       685
        Total    13         0    79                    0     1    1300    30      5      0      0     1                0    83           1061     1                 2     2576

    05:00 PM      1           0        31              1     0     352       4           0        0      0    0        0    16            256                0      0      661
    05:15 PM      1           0        20              1     0     308       9           2        0      0    0        0    16            265                0      2      624
    05:30 PM      2           0        14              1     0     394       6           0        0      0    0        0    26            293                0      2      738
    05:45 PM      7           0        21              2     0     392       6           1        0      0    0        0    16            310                0      0      755
        Total    11           0        86              5     0    1446      25           3        0      0    0        0    74           1124                0      4     2778

  Grand Total     24          0    165                 5     1    2746      55           8        0      0     1       0   157           2185                1       6    5354
   Apprch %     12.4          0   85.1               2.6     0     97.7      2         0.3        0      0   100       0    6.7            93                0     0.3
     Total %     0.4          0    3.1               0.1     0     51.3      1         0.1        0      0     0       0    2.9           40.8               0     0.1


                                                                                     29TH ST
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                            212          194      406


                                                                            165     0          24    5
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         5260


                                   157




                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                            2210
                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               55 2746




                                                                                       North
                                           1 2185
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2349
                           In




                                                                                                                                              2810
                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                           4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                           4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                1
                         2911




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                     6




                                                                                                                                                     5020
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    1    0


                                                                                 2         1         3
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                                     29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name                       : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                Site Code                       : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No                         :2

                     29TH ST                       BASELINE                                   29TH ST                                            BASELINE
                    Southbound                     Westbound                                 Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Left Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM        1     0    31      1     33     0 352    4    0         356            0        0      0      0           0      16 256                  0          0     272          661
 05:15 PM        1     0    20      1     22     0 308    9    2         319            0        0      0      0           0      16 265                  0          2     283          624
 05:30 PM        2     0    14      1     17     0 394    6    0         400            0        0      0      0           0      26 293                  0          2     321          738
 05:45 PM        7     0    21      2     30     0 392    6    1         399            0        0      0      0           0      16 310                  0          0     326          755
 Total Volume  11      0    86      5    102     0 1446  25    3        1474            0        0      0      0           0      74 1124                 0          4    1202         2778
 % App. Total 10.8     0 84.3     4.9            0 98.1 1.7 0.2                         0        0      0      0                 6.2 93.5                 0        0.3
        PHF .393 .000 .694 .625         .773 .000 .918 .694 .375          .921 .000 .000 .000 .000                    .000 .712 .906 .000 .500                              .922         .920

                                                                         29TH ST
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                99           102          201


                                                               86     0                11    5
                                                            Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                          Peak Hour Data
                        2734


                                   74




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                        Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                  1135
                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                      25 1446
                                                                            North
                                          0 1124
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  BASELINE
                      BASELINE

                         1202
                          In




                                                                                                                                                    1474
                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds


                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                       0
                        1532
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                    4




                                                                                                                                                           2609
                                                                                                                                           3




                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                 0    0    0    0


                                                                    0          0             0
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                         29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                    BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right              Peds   Left          Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0         0    17                    0     0     266     4      0      0      0     1                0    34            222     0                 0       544
    04:15 PM      1         0    20                    0     0     330     8      0      0      0     0                0    17            293     0                 1       670
    04:30 PM      5         0    16                    0     0     336    10      2      0      0     0                0    19            288     0                 1       677
    04:45 PM      7         0    26                    0     1     368     8      3      0      0     0                0    13            258     1                 0       685
        Total    13         0    79                    0     1    1300    30      5      0      0     1                0    83           1061     1                 2     2576

    05:00 PM      1           0        31              1     0     352       4           0        0      0    0        0    16            256                0      0      661
    05:15 PM      1           0        20              1     0     308       9           2        0      0    0        0    16            265                0      2      624
    05:30 PM      2           0        14              1     0     394       6           0        0      0    0        0    26            293                0      2      738
    05:45 PM      7           0        21              2     0     392       6           1        0      0    0        0    16            310                0      0      755
        Total    11           0        86              5     0    1446      25           3        0      0    0        0    74           1124                0      4     2778

  Grand Total     24          0    165                 5     1    2746      55           8        0      0     1       0   157           2185                1       6    5354
   Apprch %     12.4          0   85.1               2.6     0     97.7      2         0.3        0      0   100       0    6.7            93                0     0.3
     Total %     0.4          0    3.1               0.1     0     51.3      1         0.1        0      0     0       0    2.9           40.8               0     0.1


                                                                                     29TH ST
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                            212          194      406


                                                                            165     0          24    5
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         5260


                                   157




                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                            2210
                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               55 2746




                                                                                       North
                                           1 2185
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2349
                           In




                                                                                                                                              2810
                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                           4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                           4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                1
                         2911




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                     6




                                                                                                                                                     5020
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    1    0


                                                                                 2         1         3
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                                     29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name                       : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                Site Code                       : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date                      : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No                         :2

                     29TH ST                       BASELINE                                   29TH ST                                            BASELINE
                    Southbound                     Westbound                                 Northbound                                          Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds        App. Total    Left Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM        1     0    31      1     33     0 352    4    0         356            0        0      0      0           0      16 256                  0          0     272          661
 05:15 PM        1     0    20      1     22     0 308    9    2         319            0        0      0      0           0      16 265                  0          2     283          624
 05:30 PM        2     0    14      1     17     0 394    6    0         400            0        0      0      0           0      26 293                  0          2     321          738
 05:45 PM        7     0    21      2     30     0 392    6    1         399            0        0      0      0           0      16 310                  0          0     326          755
 Total Volume  11      0    86      5    102     0 1446  25    3        1474            0        0      0      0           0      74 1124                 0          4    1202         2778
 % App. Total 10.8     0 84.3     4.9            0 98.1 1.7 0.2                         0        0      0      0                 6.2 93.5                 0        0.3
        PHF .393 .000 .694 .625         .773 .000 .918 .694 .375          .921 .000 .000 .000 .000                    .000 .712 .906 .000 .500                              .922         .920

                                                                         29TH ST
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                99           102          201


                                                               86     0                11    5
                                                            Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                          Peak Hour Data
                        2734


                                   74




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                        Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                  1135
                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                      25 1446
                                                                            North
                                          0 1124
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  BASELINE
                      BASELINE

                         1202
                          In




                                                                                                                                                    1474
                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds


                                                         Unshifted
                                                                                                                                       0
                        1532
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                    4




                                                                                                                                                           2609
                                                                                                                                           3




                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                 0    0    0    0


                                                                    0          0             0
                                                              Out           In           Total
                                                                         29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                   File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                      ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                       ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right        Peds    Left Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     14      14   18          0    14    118      8     0       9     56      2        0     23    81     6        0      363
   07:15 AM     11      35   18          0    13    143      9     1       8     66      2        6     45    92     5        0      454
   07:30 AM     14      53   11          0    20    172    12      3     19     100      4        0     49   152     5        0      614
   07:45 AM     14      80   16          0    23    168    22      0     15     105     10        0     30   108     7        0      598
       Total    53     182   63          0    70    601    51      4     51     327     18        6    147   433    23        0    2029

   08:00 AM     17     69        18      0     9     190     22      0    13    138      13       0     42     77    12       0      620
   08:15 AM     27     87        15      0    15     161     20      0    25    128       9       0     49    116     8       0      660
   08:30 AM     24     71        14      0    17     139     18      0    24    112      13       0     53    105     4       4      598
   08:45 AM     35     48        21      0    14     188     15      0    17    100       9       0     41     84     1       0      573
       Total   103    275        68      0    55     678     75      0    79    478      44       0    185    382    25       4     2451

 Grand Total   156    457    131         0   125    1279    126      4   130    805      62        6   332    815     48       4    4480
   Apprch %     21    61.4   17.6        0    8.1    83.4    8.2   0.3    13    80.3    6.2      0.6   27.7     68     4     0.3
    Total %     3.5   10.2    2.9        0    2.8    28.5    2.8   0.1    2.9     18     1.4     0.1    7.4   18.2   1.1     0.1
   Unshifted   155    455    128         0   124    1273    123      4   130     803     62        6   329    811     48       4    4455
 % Unshifted   99.4   99.6   97.7        0   99.2    99.5   97.6   100   100    99.8    100     100    99.1   99.5   100    100      99.4
     BIKES        0      1      0        0      0       1      0     0      0       1      0       0      0      0     0       0        3
   % BIKES        0    0.2      0        0      0     0.1      0     0      0     0.1      0       0      0      0     0       0      0.1
         HV       1      1      3        0      1       5      3     0      0       1      0       0      3      4     0       0      22
      % HV      0.6    0.2    2.3        0    0.8     0.4    2.4     0      0     0.1      0       0    0.9    0.5     0       0      0.5
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                                File Name                : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                                      Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                      Start Date               : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                      Page No                  :2
                                                               30 TH
                                                             Out     In             Total
                                                             1255     738           1993
                                                                 1      1               2
                                                                 7      5              12
                                                             1263     744           2007


                                                             128  455            155    0
                                                               0     1              0   0
                                                               3     1              1   0
                                                             131  457            156    0
                                                           Right Thru           Left Peds
                        2723


                        2739
                            1
                           15




                                      332
                                      329
                                         0
                                         3




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                        Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                              126 1279


                                                                                                              123 1273


                                                                                                                               1033


                                                                                                                               1028
                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                      North
                                                 815
                                                 811
                                                    0
                                                    4

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                             5/2/2006 07:00 AM
                             1192


                             1199
                                 0
                                 7
                              In




                                                             5/2/2006 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                      1



                                                                                                                                      1534


                                                                                                                                      1524
                      ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                       In
                                             48
                                             48
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                             Unshifted




                                                                                                             125


                                                                                                             124
                                                             BIKES




                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                0
                      1531


                      1540
                          1
                          8
                      Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                             HV
                                        4
                                        4
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                               2567


                                                                                                                               2552
                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    4
                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                             130  803    62    6
                                                                0    1    0    0
                                                                0    1    0    0
                                                             130  805    62    6


                                                              627    1001           1628
                                                                 1       1              2
                                                                 2       1              3
                                                              630    1003           1633
                                                             Out      In            Total
                                                               30 TH




                  30 TH                          ARAPAHOE                              30 TH                                  ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      14   53     11     0     78    20 172    12     3     207          19   100     4       0        123   49        152     5     0     206         614
 07:45 AM      14   80     16     0    110    23 168     22    0     213          15   105   10        0        130   30        108     7     0     145         598
 08:00 AM      17   69     18     0    104      9 190   22     0     221          13   138    13       0        164   42         77    12     0     131         620
 08:15 AM      27   87     15     0    129    15 161    20     0     196          25   128     9       0        162   49        116     8     0     173         660
 Total Volume  72 289      60     0    421    67 691    76     3     837          72   471   36        0        579 170         453   32      0     655        2492
 % App. Total 17.1 68.6 14.3      0             8 82.6 9.1 0.4                  12.4 81.3    6.2       0              26        69.2  4.9     0
        PHF .667 .830 .833 .000 .816 .728 .909 .864 .250            .947 .720 .853 .692 .000                   .883 .867        .745 .667 .000     .795         .944
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                            File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                  Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                  Page No          :3
                                                          30 TH
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                         717     421     1138


                                                         60  289      72    0
                                                      Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                    Peak Hour Data
                      1478


                                  170




                                                                                               Right Thru
                      Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                            ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                  76


                                                                                                             561
                                                                North
                                             453
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                      691
                           655
                          In
                   ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                   In
                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM




                                                                                                                    837
                                         32




                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                   Unshifted




                                                                                                 67
                    823




                                                   BIKES
                   Out




                                                                                                            Total
                                    0




                                                                                                            1398
                                                   HV




                                                                                                       3


                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                         72  471    36    0


                                                         388     579      967
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                          30 TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                   File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                      ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                       ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right        Peds    Left Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     14      14   18          0    14    118      8     0       9     56      2        0     23    81     6        0      363
   07:15 AM     11      35   18          0    13    143      9     1       8     66      2        6     45    92     5        0      454
   07:30 AM     14      53   11          0    20    172    12      3     19     100      4        0     49   152     5        0      614
   07:45 AM     14      80   16          0    23    168    22      0     15     105     10        0     30   108     7        0      598
       Total    53     182   63          0    70    601    51      4     51     327     18        6    147   433    23        0    2029

   08:00 AM     17     69        18      0     9     190     22      0    13    138      13       0     42     77    12       0      620
   08:15 AM     27     87        15      0    15     161     20      0    25    128       9       0     49    116     8       0      660
   08:30 AM     24     71        14      0    17     139     18      0    24    112      13       0     53    105     4       4      598
   08:45 AM     35     48        21      0    14     188     15      0    17    100       9       0     41     84     1       0      573
       Total   103    275        68      0    55     678     75      0    79    478      44       0    185    382    25       4     2451

 Grand Total   156    457    131         0   125    1279    126      4   130    805      62        6   332    815     48       4    4480
   Apprch %     21    61.4   17.6        0    8.1    83.4    8.2   0.3    13    80.3    6.2      0.6   27.7     68     4     0.3
    Total %     3.5   10.2    2.9        0    2.8    28.5    2.8   0.1    2.9     18     1.4     0.1    7.4   18.2   1.1     0.1
   Unshifted   155    455    128         0   124    1273    123      4   130     803     62        6   329    811     48       4    4455
 % Unshifted   99.4   99.6   97.7        0   99.2    99.5   97.6   100   100    99.8    100     100    99.1   99.5   100    100      99.4
     BIKES        0      1      0        0      0       1      0     0      0       1      0       0      0      0     0       0        3
   % BIKES        0    0.2      0        0      0     0.1      0     0      0     0.1      0       0      0      0     0       0      0.1
         HV       1      1      3        0      1       5      3     0      0       1      0       0      3      4     0       0      22
      % HV      0.6    0.2    2.3        0    0.8     0.4    2.4     0      0     0.1      0       0    0.9    0.5     0       0      0.5
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                                File Name                : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                                      Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                      Start Date               : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                      Page No                  :2
                                                               30 TH
                                                             Out     In             Total
                                                             1255     738           1993
                                                                 1      1               2
                                                                 7      5              12
                                                             1263     744           2007


                                                             128  455            155    0
                                                               0     1              0   0
                                                               3     1              1   0
                                                             131  457            156    0
                                                           Right Thru           Left Peds
                        2723


                        2739
                            1
                           15




                                      332
                                      329
                                         0
                                         3




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                        Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                              126 1279


                                                                                                              123 1273


                                                                                                                               1033


                                                                                                                               1028
                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                      North
                                                 815
                                                 811
                                                    0
                                                    4

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                             5/2/2006 07:00 AM
                             1192


                             1199
                                 0
                                 7
                              In




                                                             5/2/2006 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                      1



                                                                                                                                      1534


                                                                                                                                      1524
                      ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                       In
                                             48
                                             48
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                             Unshifted




                                                                                                             125


                                                                                                             124
                                                             BIKES




                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                0
                      1531


                      1540
                          1
                          8
                      Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                             HV
                                        4
                                        4
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                               2567


                                                                                                                               2552
                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    4
                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                             130  803    62    6
                                                                0    1    0    0
                                                                0    1    0    0
                                                             130  805    62    6


                                                              627    1001           1628
                                                                 1       1              2
                                                                 2       1              3
                                                              630    1003           1633
                                                             Out      In            Total
                                                               30 TH




                  30 TH                          ARAPAHOE                              30 TH                                  ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                       Westbound                           Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
 07:30 AM      14   53     11     0     78    20 172    12     3     207          19   100     4       0        123   49        152     5     0     206         614
 07:45 AM      14   80     16     0    110    23 168     22    0     213          15   105   10        0        130   30        108     7     0     145         598
 08:00 AM      17   69     18     0    104      9 190   22     0     221          13   138    13       0        164   42         77    12     0     131         620
 08:15 AM      27   87     15     0    129    15 161    20     0     196          25   128     9       0        162   49        116     8     0     173         660
 Total Volume  72 289      60     0    421    67 691    76     3     837          72   471   36        0        579 170         453   32      0     655        2492
 % App. Total 17.1 68.6 14.3      0             8 82.6 9.1 0.4                  12.4 81.3    6.2       0              26        69.2  4.9     0
        PHF .667 .830 .833 .000 .816 .728 .909 .864 .250            .947 .720 .853 .692 .000                   .883 .867        .745 .667 .000     .795         .944
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                            File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                  Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                  Page No          :3
                                                          30 TH
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                         717     421     1138


                                                         60  289      72    0
                                                      Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                    Peak Hour Data
                      1478


                                  170




                                                                                               Right Thru
                      Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                            ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                  76


                                                                                                             561
                                                                North
                                             453
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                      691
                           655
                          In
                   ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                   In
                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM




                                                                                                                    837
                                         32




                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                   Unshifted




                                                                                                 67
                    823




                                                   BIKES
                   Out




                                                                                                            Total
                                    0




                                                                                                            1398
                                                   HV




                                                                                                       3


                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                         72  471    36    0


                                                         388     579      967
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                          30 TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                  File Name       : 30TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                        Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                        Start Date      : 5/2/2006
                                                                                        Page No         :1


                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                    ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                       ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                 Westbound                   Northbound                    Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right      Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right        Peds    Left Thru Right       Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     43      88   35        0    45    238    28      3     31     104     12        0     70   150    13          0      860
   04:15 PM     30      78   49        0    54    231    34      8     38     118     10        0     72   202    14          1      939
   04:30 PM     31      90   41        0    43    213    36      4     37     122     13        0     67   167    19          2      885
   04:45 PM     39      74   57        0    60    232    43      4     33     125      9        0     90   202    25          0      993
       Total   143     330  182        0   202    914   141     19    139     469     44        0    299   721    71          3    3677

   05:00 PM     35    138     79       2    83     198     29     10     42     171    12       3     76     175     20       7     1080
   05:15 PM     42    129     56       0    62     274     36      5     53     165    14       1     83     211     27       4     1162
   05:30 PM     32    144     50       0    80     187     30      6     60     151    13       0     82     176      4       2     1017
   05:45 PM     29     89     48       0    58     193     39      3     36     193     5       4     68     161     19       2      947
       Total   138    500    233       2   283     852    134     24    191     680    44       8    309     723     70      15     4206

 Grand Total   281    830     415      2   485    1766     275    43    330    1149     88       8   608    1444    141       18    7883
   Apprch %    18.4   54.3   27.2    0.1   18.9    68.7   10.7   1.7     21      73    5.6    0.5    27.5    65.3   6.4      0.8
    Total %     3.6   10.5    5.3      0    6.2    22.4    3.5    0.5    4.2    14.6   1.1     0.1    7.7    18.3    1.8     0.2
   Unshifted   280    829     415      2   485    1759     275     43   330    1143     88       8   608    1438    141       18    7862
 % Unshifted   99.6   99.9    100    100   100     99.6    100   100    100     99.5   100    100    100     99.6   100     100      99.7
     BIKES        0      1      0      0      0       5      0      0      0       5     0       0      0       5      0       0      16
   % BIKES        0    0.1      0      0      0     0.3      0      0      0     0.4     0       0      0     0.3      0       0      0.2
         HV       1      0      0      0      0       2      0      0      0       1     0       0      0       1      0       0        5
      % HV      0.4      0      0      0      0     0.1      0      0      0     0.1     0       0      0     0.1      0       0      0.1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                                File Name                : 30TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                                      Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                      Start Date               : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                      Page No                  :2
                                                               30 TH
                                                             Out      In            Total
                                                             2026    1526           3552
                                                                 5       1              6
                                                                 1       1              2
                                                             2032    1528           3560


                                                             415  829            280    2
                                                               0     1              0   0
                                                               0     0              1   0
                                                             415  830            281    2
                                                           Right Thru           Left Peds
                        4709


                        4722
                           10
                            3




                                      608
                                      608
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                        Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                              275 1766


                                                                                                              275 1759


                                                                                                                               1813


                                                                                                                               1806
                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                      North
                                            141 1444
                                            141 1438
                                                    5
                                                    1

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                             5/2/2006 04:00 PM
                             2205


                             2211
                                 5
                                 1
                              In




                                                             5/2/2006 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                      5



                                                                                                                                      2569


                                                                                                                                      2562
                      ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                       In
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                          5
                                                             Unshifted




                                                                                                             485


                                                                                                             485
                                                             BIKES




                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                      2504


                      2511
                          5
                          2
                      Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                             HV
                                       18
                                       18
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                               4382


                                                                                                                               4368
                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                   43


                                                                                                                   43



                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                             330 1143    88    8
                                                                0    5    0    0
                                                                0    1    0    0
                                                             330 1149    88    8


                                                             1455    1569           3024
                                                                 1       5              6
                                                                 0       1              1
                                                             1456    1575           3031
                                                             Out      In            Total
                                                               30 TH




                  30 TH                          ARAPAHOE                             30 TH                                   ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                       Westbound                          Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      39   74     57     0    170    60 232     43    4    339  33           125      9       0        167   90        202   25        0    317          993
 05:00 PM      35 138      79     2    254    83 198    29   10     320  42           171    12        3        228   76        175   20        7    278         1080
 05:15 PM      42 129      56     0    227    62 274    36     5    377  53           165     14       1        233   83        211    27       4    325         1162
 05:30 PM      32 144      50     0    226    80 187    30     6    303  60           151    13        0        224   82        176     4       2    264         1017
 Total Volume 148 485 242         2    877 285 891 138       25    1339 188           612    48        4        852 331         764   76      13    1184         4252
 % App. Total 16.9 55.3 27.6    0.2          21.3 66.5 10.3 1.9                 22.1 71.8    5.6     0.5              28        64.5  6.4     1.1
        PHF .881 .842 .766 .250 .863 .858 .813 .802 .625            .888 .783 .895 .857 .333                   .914 .919        .905 .704 .464       .911         .915
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                            File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                  Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                  Page No          :3
                                                          30 TH
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                        1081     877     1958


                                                        242  485     148    2
                                                      Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                    Peak Hour Data
                      2505


                                  331




                                                                                               Right Thru
                      Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                 138



                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                            ARAPAHOE
                                                                                                             960
                                                                North
                                             764
                                 Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                      891
                          1184
                           In




                                                                                                                  1339
                   ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                   In
                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                         76




                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                285
                                                   Unshifted
                   1321




                                                   BIKES
                   Out




                                                                                                            Total
                                   13




                                                                                                            2299
                                                   HV




                                                                                                      25


                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                        188  612    48    4


                                                         846     852     1698
                                                        Out     In       Total
                                                          30 TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                  File Name         : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                                  Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                Peds    Left           Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22         33     5                        1    17        96    28      0      6     18    7                   0     11              62     6                 0       312
    07:15 AM     39         66    12                        0    18       103    28      0     11     20    5                   0     17              77    17                 0       413
    07:30 AM     40         60     6                        0    18       140    35      1     17     34    8                   0     10              76    16                 0       461
    07:45 AM     79        107    13                        0    22       155    36      0     31     30    5                   0     17             124    30                 0       649
        Total   180        266    36                        1    75       494   127      1     65    102   25                   0     55             339    69                 0     1835

    08:00 AM     53           89            16              0    34      139      30           0       15       41      6       0      8            116                38      0      585
    08:15 AM     40           79            17              0    24      136      38           0       19       34     13       0     15            139                11      0      565
    08:30 AM     48           86            18              0    20      148      46           0       23       31     11       0     20            137                16      0      604
    08:45 AM     67           92            10              0    35      131      19           0       32       37      6       0     10            124                19      0      582
        Total   208          346            61              0   113      554     133           0       89      143     36       0     53            516                84      0     2336

  Grand Total    388         612           97               1    188    1048    260            1      154      245      61      0    108           855            153          0     4171
   Apprch %     35.3        55.7          8.8             0.1   12.6       70   17.4         0.1     33.5      53.3   13.3      0     9.7          76.6           13.7         0
     Total %      9.3       14.7          2.3               0     4.5    25.1    6.2           0       3.7      5.9    1.5      0     2.6          20.5            3.7         0


                                                                                        FOLSOM
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                  613     1098         1711


                                                                                   97  612          388    1
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2415


                                        108




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                        260 1048


                                                                                                                                                      1304
                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   855
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                      ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1116
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                         1497
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              153




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       188
                        1299




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               2801
                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 154  245    61    0


                                                                                  953       460        1413
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                        FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                               File Name                  : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                               Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date                 : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                               Page No                    :2

                     FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                               FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      79 107       13     0    199     22 155  36     0                      213          31    30     5       0       66         17        124         30           0      171         649
 08:00 AM      53    89     16     0    158     34 139  30     0                      203          15    41     6       0       62          8        116         38           0      162         585
 08:15 AM      40    79     17     0    136     24 136  38     0                      198          19    34    13       0       66         15        139         11           0      165         565
 08:30 AM      48    86     18     0    152     20 148  46     0                      214          23    31    11       0       65         20        137         16           0      173         604
 Total Volume 220 361       64     0    645 100 578 150        0                      828          88   136    35       0      259         60        516         95           0      671        2403
           34.1
 % App. Total     56   9.9   0                              12.1 69.8 18.1    0              34 52.5 13.5    0                       8.9 76.9 14.2    0
       PHF .696 .843 .889 .000                         .810 .735 .932 .815 .000       .967 .710 .829 .673 .000                 .981 .750 .928 .625 .000                              .970         .926

                                                                                     FOLSOM
                                                                             Out        In           Total
                                                                              346        645          991


                                                                              64  361             220    0
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1401


                                       60




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                              150



                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                            771
                                                                                        North
                                                 516




                                                                                                                                                           ARAPAHOE
                          ARAPAHOE




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   578
                               671
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                               828
                                             95




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             100

                                                                        Unshifted
                       730
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                    1599
                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              88  136    35    0


                                                                              556        259          815
                                                                             Out        In           Total
                                                                                     FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                  File Name         : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                                  Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                  Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                Peds    Left           Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22         33     5                        1    17        96    28      0      6     18    7                   0     11              62     6                 0       312
    07:15 AM     39         66    12                        0    18       103    28      0     11     20    5                   0     17              77    17                 0       413
    07:30 AM     40         60     6                        0    18       140    35      1     17     34    8                   0     10              76    16                 0       461
    07:45 AM     79        107    13                        0    22       155    36      0     31     30    5                   0     17             124    30                 0       649
        Total   180        266    36                        1    75       494   127      1     65    102   25                   0     55             339    69                 0     1835

    08:00 AM     53           89            16              0    34      139      30           0       15       41      6       0      8            116                38      0      585
    08:15 AM     40           79            17              0    24      136      38           0       19       34     13       0     15            139                11      0      565
    08:30 AM     48           86            18              0    20      148      46           0       23       31     11       0     20            137                16      0      604
    08:45 AM     67           92            10              0    35      131      19           0       32       37      6       0     10            124                19      0      582
        Total   208          346            61              0   113      554     133           0       89      143     36       0     53            516                84      0     2336

  Grand Total    388         612           97               1    188    1048    260            1      154      245      61      0    108           855            153          0     4171
   Apprch %     35.3        55.7          8.8             0.1   12.6       70   17.4         0.1     33.5      53.3   13.3      0     9.7          76.6           13.7         0
     Total %      9.3       14.7          2.3               0     4.5    25.1    6.2           0       3.7      5.9    1.5      0     2.6          20.5            3.7         0


                                                                                        FOLSOM
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                  613     1098         1711


                                                                                   97  612          388    1
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2415


                                        108




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                        260 1048


                                                                                                                                                      1304
                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   855
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                      ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1116
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                         1497
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              153




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       188
                        1299




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               2801
                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 154  245    61    0


                                                                                  953       460        1413
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                        FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                               File Name                  : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                               Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date                 : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                               Page No                    :2

                     FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                               FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                                     Westbound                             Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      79 107       13     0    199     22 155  36     0                      213          31    30     5       0       66         17        124         30           0      171         649
 08:00 AM      53    89     16     0    158     34 139  30     0                      203          15    41     6       0       62          8        116         38           0      162         585
 08:15 AM      40    79     17     0    136     24 136  38     0                      198          19    34    13       0       66         15        139         11           0      165         565
 08:30 AM      48    86     18     0    152     20 148  46     0                      214          23    31    11       0       65         20        137         16           0      173         604
 Total Volume 220 361       64     0    645 100 578 150        0                      828          88   136    35       0      259         60        516         95           0      671        2403
           34.1
 % App. Total     56   9.9   0                              12.1 69.8 18.1    0              34 52.5 13.5    0                       8.9 76.9 14.2    0
       PHF .696 .843 .889 .000                         .810 .735 .932 .815 .000       .967 .710 .829 .673 .000                 .981 .750 .928 .625 .000                              .970         .926

                                                                                     FOLSOM
                                                                             Out        In           Total
                                                                              346        645          991


                                                                              64  361             220    0
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1401


                                       60




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                              150



                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                            771
                                                                                        North
                                                 516




                                                                                                                                                           ARAPAHOE
                          ARAPAHOE




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   578
                               671
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                               828
                                             95




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             100

                                                                        Unshifted
                       730
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                    1599
                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              88  136    35    0


                                                                              556        259          815
                                                                             Out        In           Total
                                                                                     FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name          : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMPM
                                                                                                                 Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date         : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                       ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds    Left           Thru Right            Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     52         88     9                        0    18      151    37      0     24     80   19                    0     40             198    17               0       733
    04:15 PM     59         99    18                        0    14      165    24      0     20     78   18                    0     23             189    13               0       720
    04:30 PM     54        143    10                        0    19      165    20      0     27     84   12                    0     20             186    18               0       758
    04:45 PM     61        109     8                        1    28      177    40      1     30     60   11                    0     33             213    24               0       796
        Total   226        439    45                        1    79      658   121      1    101    302   60                    0    116             786    72               0     3007

    05:00 PM     78          168            10              0    29     174      29           0       28       96      12       0     29            196             27       0      876
    05:15 PM     64          137            13              0    21     163      20           0       32       60      15       0     33            206             18       0      782
    05:30 PM     63          119            16              0    19     156      28           0       16       75      11       0     28            171             19       0      721
    05:45 PM     55          105            24              0    12     153      29           0       36       71      14       0     22            191             41       0      753
        Total   260          529            63              0    81     646     106           0      112      302      52       0    112            764            105       0     3132

  Grand Total    486         968       108                  1   160    1304    227            1      213      604     112       0    228           1550            177       0     6139
   Apprch %     31.1        61.9       6.9                0.1    9.5    77.1   13.4         0.1     22.9       65    12.1       0   11.7            79.3            9.1      0
     Total %      7.9       15.8       1.8                  0    2.6    21.2    3.7           0       3.5      9.8     1.8      0     3.7           25.2            2.9      0


                                                                                       FOLSOM
                                                                                Out       In          Total
                                                                                1059     1563         2622


                                                                                 108  968          486    1
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                            3580


                                        228




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                        227 1304


                                                                                                                                                      2148
                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                            North
                                              177 1550
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                      ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1955
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                         1692
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       160
                        1625




                                                                                Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               3840
                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                213  604   112    0


                                                                                1305       929        2234
                                                                                Out       In          Total
                                                                                       FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                  File Name                  : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMPM
                                                                                                  Site Code                  : 00000000
                                                                                                  Start Date                 : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                  Page No                    :2

                     FOLSOM                            ARAPAHOE                              FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                    Southbound                         Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
 04:30 PM      54 143       10     0     207    19 165   20    0         204          27    84    12       0      123         20        186       18             0     224          758
 04:45 PM      61 109        8     1     179    28 177   40    1         246          30    60    11       0      101         33        213       24             0     270          796
 05:00 PM      78 168       10     0     256    29 174   29    0         232          28    96    12       0      136         29        196       27             0     252          876
 05:15 PM      64 137       13     0     214    21 163   20    0         204          32    60    15       0      107         33        206       18             0     257          782
 Total Volume 257 557       41     1     856    97 679 109     1         886         117   300    50       0      467        115        801        87            0    1003         3212
 % App. Total  30 65.1 4.8 0.1                10.9 76.6 12.3 0.1              25.1 64.2 10.7    0                      11.5 79.9                  8.7            0
        PHF .824 .829 .788 .250         .836 .836 .959 .681 .250         .900 .914 .781 .833 .000                 .858 .871 .940 .806 .000                              .929         .917

                                                                        FOLSOM
                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                 524        856         1380


                                                                 41  557             257    1
                                                              Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                            Peak Hour Data
                          1840


                                      115




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                 109


                                                                                                                                              1108
                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                           North
                                                 801




                                                                                                                                              ARAPAHOE
                          ARAPAHOE




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      679
                              1003
                               In




                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM

                                                                                                                                                  886
                                             87




                                                                                                                               Left Peds


                                                           Unshifted
                                                                                                                                 97
                       837
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                        0




                                                                                                                                                       1994
                                                                                                                                       1




                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                117  300    50    0


                                                                 741        467         1208
                                                                Out        In           Total
                                                                        FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name        : BROADWAY&BASELINEAM
                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                    BASELINE                   BROADWAY                       BASELINE
                      Southbound                 Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right    Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds    Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     54       63    0        2     1     20    59      0     14      92      6       2      3      53    14       0      383
   07:15 AM     74       91    0        2     3     54    80      0     26     115      3       0      4      85    22       0      559
   07:30 AM    103       82    0        7     4     69   121      0     28     158     14       6      1     100    16       0      709
   07:45 AM     95       82    1        8     7    116   205      0     23     236     14      11      3     111    34       0      946
       Total   326      318    1       19    15    259   465      0     91     601     37      19     11     349    86       0    2597

   08:00 AM     96     114       0     15     5    111     143     0    41     218     14       3      4     91     24       2      881
   08:15 AM    108     108       0      5     6     98     161     0    35     207     16      19      4     93     24       3      887
   08:30 AM    118      89       0      5     6    130     135     0    48     205     25      29      1     84     17       0      892
   08:45 AM    101      84       0     11     7    164     166     0    34     232     12      20      3     88     31       2      955
       Total   423     395       0     36    24    503     605     0   158     862     67      71     12    356     96       7     3615

 Grand Total   749     713      1      55    39    762    1070     0   249    1463    104      90     23    705     182       7    6212
   Apprch %    49.3     47    0.1     3.6    2.1   40.7    57.2    0   13.1    76.8   5.5     4.7     2.5   76.9   19.8    0.8
    Total %    12.1    11.5     0     0.9    0.6   12.3    17.2    0      4    23.6    1.7     1.4    0.4   11.3    2.9     0.1
   Unshifted   748     709      1      55    39    762    1068     0   249    1428    103       90    23    703     182       7    6167
 % Unshifted   99.9    99.4   100     100   100    100     99.8    0   100     97.6     99    100    100    99.7    100    100      99.3
     BIKES        1       4     0       0      0      0       1    0      0      35      0       0      0      2      0       0      43
   % BIKES      0.1     0.6     0       0      0      0     0.1    0      0     2.4      0       0      0    0.3      0       0      0.7
         HV       0       0     0       0      0      0       1    0      0       0      1       0      0      0      0       0        2
      % HV        0       0     0       0      0      0     0.1    0      0       0      1       0      0      0      0       0        0
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                           File Name              : BROADWAY&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                 Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                 Start Date             : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                 Page No                :2
                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                               2519       1513  4032
                                                                 36           5    41
                                                                   1          0     1
                                                               2556       1518  4074


                                                                  1  709             748   55
                                                                  0     4               1   0
                                                                  0     0               0   0
                                                                  1  713             749   55
                                                              Right Thru            Left Peds
                       1927


                       1929
                           2
                           0




                                       23
                                       23
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                       Total




                                                                                                                 1070


                                                                                                                 1068
                                     Left




                                                                                                                                    1558


                                                                                                                                    1554
                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                        North
                                                 705
                                                 703
                                                    2
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                    BASELINE
                      BASELINE




                                                               5/2/2006 07:00 AM




                                                                                                                        762


                                                                                                                        762
                           915
                             2
                             0
                           917
                          In




                                                               5/2/2006 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                      1871


                                                                                                                                      1869
                                                                                                                                       In
                                            182
                                            182
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                          1
                                                               Unshifted




                                                                                                                   39


                                                                                                                   39
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                       1012


                       1012
                           0
                           0
                       Out




                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                               HV
                                        7
                                        7
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                             3429


                                                                                                                                             3423
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                249 1428   103   90
                                                                   0  35     0    0
                                                                   0    0    1    0
                                                                249 1463   104   90


                                                                930       1870  2800
                                                                   4         35    39
                                                                   0          1     1
                                                                934       1906  2840
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                                       BROADWAY




                    BROADWAY                            BASELINE                            BROADWAY                                    BASELINE
                    Southbound                          Westbound                           Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Left Thru    Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru   Right    Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      96 114       0    15    225      5 111 143      0        259  41           218     14        3       276           4  91   24           2      121         881
 08:15 AM 108 108           0     5    221      6  98 161      0        265  35           207     16      19        277           4  93   24           3      124         887
 08:30 AM 118       89      0     5    212      6 130 135      0        271  48           205      25      29       307           1  84   17           0      102         892
 08:45 AM 101       84      0    11    196      7 164 166      0        337  34           232     12      20        298           3  88   31           2      124         955
 Total Volume 423 395       0    36    854    24 503 605       0       1132 158           862     67      71       1158         12 356    96           7      471        3615
 % App. Total 49.5 46.3     0 4.2             2.1 44.4 53.4    0                    13.6 74.4     5.8     6.1                   2.5 75.6 20.4        1.5
        PHF .896 .866 .000 .600 .949 .857 .767 .911 .000                .840 .823 .929 .670 .612                    .943 .750 .957 .774 .583                 .950         .946
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name    : BROADWAY&BASELINEAM
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No      :3
                                                            BROADWAY
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                     1479        854 2333


                                                       0  395      423   36
                                                   Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                 Peak Hour Data
                     1132


                                12




                                                                                               Right Thru
                     Total




                              Left




                                                                                                 605



                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                             846
                                                              North
                                          356
                              Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                            BASELINE
                   BASELINE




                                                                                                      503
                        471
                       In




                                                                                                              1132
                                                                                                               In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                      96




                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                Unshifted




                                                                                                 24
                      661




                                                BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                                     Total
                                 7




                                                                                                                     1978
                                                HV




                                                                                                       0


                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                     158  862    67   71


                                                      515      1158  1673
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                          File Name         : BROADWAY&BASELINEPM
                                                                                Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                Start Date        : 5/2/2006
                                                                                Page No           :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                       BROADWAY                    BASELINE                   BROADWAY                        BASELINE
                       Southbound                 Westbound                   Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right   Peds    Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right        Peds    Left   Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     176      100    0       1     16    132   126      0     26     186     31        6      8      97    49        0      954
   04:15 PM     182      119    0       3     16     75   132      3     21     153     20        1      9     106    38        2      880
   04:30 PM     182      140    0       6      8     77   124      0     28     176     27        2      3     101    42        0      916
   04:45 PM     237      124    0      14     12    100   104      0     20     168     25        3      4     104    37        0      952
       Total    777      483    0      24     52    384   486      3     95     683   103        12     24     408   166        2    3702

   05:00 PM     225     146      0     24      9    100    142      2    28     158     26       14      4    133     47        1     1059
   05:15 PM     229     163      0      2     13     98     84      0    18     171     29        5      7    133     65        0     1017
   05:30 PM     194     145      0      5     17    137    112      0    47     183     34        1      5    112     40        1     1033
   05:45 PM     177     111      0      6     15    143    125      0    31     171     26        2     10    113     38        1      969
       Total    825     565      0     37     54    478    463      2   124     683    115       22     26    491    190        3     4078

 Grand Total   1602    1048      0     61    106    862     949     5   219    1366     218      34     50    899     356       5     7780
   Apprch %     59.1    38.7     0     2.3    5.5   44.8   49.4   0.3   11.9    74.4   11.9     1.9     3.8   68.6   27.2     0.4
    Total %     20.6    13.5     0     0.8    1.4   11.1   12.2   0.1    2.8    17.6     2.8     0.4    0.6   11.6    4.6     0.1
   Unshifted   1597    1032      0     61    101    862     949     5   219    1352     213      34     50    895     355       5     7730
 % Unshifted    99.7    98.5     0    100    95.3    100    100   100   100       99   97.7     100    100    99.6   99.7     100      99.4
     BIKES         1     12      0       0      0      0      0     0      0      11       0       0      0      4       0      0       28
   % BIKES       0.1     1.1     0       0      0      0      0     0      0     0.8       0       0      0    0.4       0      0       0.4
         HV        4       4     0       0      5      0      0     0      0       3       5       0      0      0       1      0       22
      % HV       0.2     0.4     0       0    4.7      0      0     0      0     0.2     2.3       0      0      0     0.3      0       0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                           File Name              : BROADWAY&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                 Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                 Start Date             : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                 Page No                :2
                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                               2351       2690  5041
                                                                 11          13    24
                                                                   3          8    11
                                                               2365       2711  5076


                                                                  0 1032            1597   61
                                                                  0   12                1   0
                                                                  0     4               4   0
                                                                  0 1048            1602   61
                                                              Right Thru            Left Peds
                       2386


                       2391
                           4
                           1




                                       50
                                       50
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                       Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                   949


                                                                                                                   949


                                                                                                                                      2719


                                                                                                                                      2705
                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                        North
                                                 899
                                                 895
                                                    4
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      BASELINE
                      BASELINE




                                                               5/2/2006 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                        862


                                                                                                                        862
                         1305


                         1310
                             4
                             1
                          In




                                                               5/2/2006 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           0



                                                                                                                                        1922


                                                                                                                                        1917
                                                                                                                                         In
                                            356
                                            355
                                              0
                                              1




                                                                                                                 Left Peds




                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                               Unshifted




                                                                                                                  106


                                                                                                                  101
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                     0
                       1081


                       1081
                           0
                           0
                       Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                               HV
                                        5
                                        5
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                               4641


                                                                                                                                               4622
                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         5
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                219 1352   213   34
                                                                   0  11     0    0
                                                                   0    3    5    0
                                                                219 1366   218   34


                                                               1488       1818  3306
                                                                 12          11    23
                                                                 10           8    18
                                                               1510       1837  3347
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                                       BROADWAY




                    BROADWAY                            BASELINE                            BROADWAY                                      BASELINE
                    Southbound                          Westbound                           Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Left Thru    Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru     Right    Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM 225 146           0    24    395      9 100 142      2         253  28          158  26          14        226          4    133  47           1      185        1059
 05:15 PM 229 163           0     2    394    13   98   84     0         195  18          171  29           5        223          7    133  65           0      205        1017
 05:30 PM 194 145           0     5    344     17 137 112      0         266  47          183  34           1        265          5    112  40           1      158        1033
 05:45 PM 177 111           0     6    294    15 143 125       0         283  31          171  26           2        230         10    113  38           1      162         969
 Total Volume 825 565       0    37 1427      54 478 463       2         997 124          683 115         22         944        26     491 190           3      710        4078
 % App. Total 57.8 39.6     0 2.6             5.4 47.9 46.4 0.2                     13.1 72.4 12.2        2.3                   3.7    69.2 26.8       0.4
        PHF .901 .867 .000 .385 .903 .794 .836 .815 .250                .881 .660 .933 .846 .393                    .891 .650 .923 .731 .750                   .866         .963
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name    : BROADWAY&BASELINEPM
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No      :3
                                                            BROADWAY
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                     1172      1427  2599


                                                       0  565      825   37
                                                   Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                 Peak Hour Data
                     1312


                                26




                                                                                               Right Thru
                     Total




                              Left




                                                                                                 463


                                                                                                            1431
                                                                                                            Out
                                                              North
                                          491
                              Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                            BASELINE
                   BASELINE




                                                                                                      478
                        710
                       In




                                                                                                               In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                997
                                     190




                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                Unshifted




                                                                                                 54
                      602




                                                BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                                     Total
                                 3




                                                                                                                     2428
                                                HV




                                                                                                       2


                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                     124  683   115   22


                                                      809        944 1753
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                              File Name        : BROADWAY&SPRUCEAM
                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                      SPRUCE                    BROADWAY                        SPRUCE
                      Southbound                  Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right     Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right      Peds     Left   Thru Right   Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM      0      161   10         3     7     10      4     0     10      86     0       1       0       0     0      0      292
   07:15 AM      0      244   20         8     4     13      6     0     11     107     0       2       0       0     0      0      415
   07:30 AM      0      163   29         2    12     19    17      1     18     135     0       5       0       0     0      0      401
   07:45 AM      0      183   26         5    13     34      9     3     16     145     0       2       0       0     0      0      436
       Total     0      751   85        18    36     76    36      4     55     473     0      10       0       0     0      0    1544

   08:00 AM      0     175     41        3    21     39      19      0     20     125    0      2       0      0     0       0      445
   08:15 AM      0     186     35        1     9     35      15      0     21     171    0      1       0      0     0       0      474
   08:30 AM      0     204     28        3    17     49      16      0     24     151    0      5       0      0     0       0      497
   08:45 AM      0     168     32       11    18     36      24      0     22     130    0      2       0      0     0       0      443
       Total     0     733    136       18    65    159      74      0     87     577    0     10       0      0     0       0     1859

 Grand Total     0    1484     221     36    101    235     110       4   142    1050    0     20       0      0     0       0     3403
   Apprch %      0     85.2   12.7     2.1   22.4   52.2   24.4    0.9    11.7    86.6   0    1.7       0      0     0       0
    Total %      0     43.6    6.5     1.1      3    6.9     3.2    0.1    4.2    30.9   0     0.6      0      0     0       0
   Unshifted     0    1468     219     35    100    215     110       4   141    1041    0     20       0      0     0       0     3353
 % Unshifted     0     98.9   99.1    97.2    99    91.5    100    100    99.3    99.1   0    100       0      0     0       0      98.5
     BIKES       0       11       2      1      1     20       0      0      1       5   0       0      0      0     0       0       41
   % BIKES       0      0.7     0.9    2.8      1    8.5       0      0    0.7     0.5   0       0      0      0     0       0       1.2
         HV      0        5       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       4   0       0      0      0     0       0         9
      % HV       0      0.3       0      0      0      0       0      0      0     0.4   0       0      0      0     0       0       0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                           File Name                     : BROADWAY&SPRUCEAM
                                                                                                 Site Code                     : 00000000
                                                                                                 Start Date                    : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                 Page No                       :2
                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                               1151       1722  2873
                                                                   5         14    19
                                                                   4          5     9
                                                               1160       1741  2901


                                                                219 1468                0  35
                                                                  2   11                0   1
                                                                  0     5               0   0
                                                                221 1484                0  36
                                                              Right Thru            Left Peds
                        575
                          23
                           0
                        598




                                          0
                                         0
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                                Right Thru
                       Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                  110


                                                                                                                  110




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                        North
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru
                      SPRUCE




                                                                                                                                     SPRUCE
                                                               5/2/2006 07:00 AM




                                                                                                                       235


                                                                                                                       215
                            0
                            0
                            0
                            0




                                                                                                                        20
                         In




                                                               5/2/2006 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                        450


                                                                                                                                        429
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          0
                                                               Unshifted




                                                                                                                 101


                                                                                                                 100
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1
                        575
                         23
                           0
                        598
                       Out




                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                               HV
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                      450


                                                                                                                                      429
                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        4
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                141 1041     0   20
                                                                   1    5    0    0
                                                                   0    4    0    0
                                                                142 1050     0   20


                                                               1568       1202  2770
                                                                 12           6    18
                                                                   5          4     9
                                                               1585       1212  2797
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                                       BROADWAY




                    BROADWAY                             SPRUCE                             BROADWAY                                    SPRUCE
                    Southbound                          Westbound                           Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      0 175       41     3    219    21   39   19     0          79          20   125      0      2        147          0    0       0      0           0      445
 08:15 AM      0 186       35     1    222      9  35   15     0          59          21   171      0      1        193          0    0       0      0           0      474
 08:30 AM      0 204       28     3    235    17   49   16     0          82          24   151      0      5        180          0    0       0      0           0      497
 08:45 AM      0 168       32    11    211    18   36   24     0          78          22   130      0      2        154          0    0       0      0           0      443
 Total Volume  0 733 136         18    887    65 159    74     0         298          87   577      0    10         674          0    0       0      0           0     1859
 % App. Total  0 82.6 15.3        2          21.8 53.4 24.8    0                    12.9 85.6       0    1.5                     0    0       0      0
        PHF .000 .898 .829 .409 .944 .774 .811 .771 .000                .909 .906 .844 .000 .500                   .873 .000 .000 .000 .000                .000         .935
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name    : BROADWAY&SPRUCEAM
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No      :3
                                                            BROADWAY
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                      651        887 1538


                                                     136  733         0  18
                                                   Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                 Peak Hour Data
                      382


                                 0




                                                                                              Right Thru
                     Total




                             Left




                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                 74


                                                                                                           0
                                                              North
                                            0
                             Peds Right Thru
                   SPRUCE




                                                                                                           SPRUCE
                                                                                                     159
                         0
                      In




                                                                                                             In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                              298
                                      0




                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                Unshifted




                                                                                                65
                      382




                                                BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                           Total
                                0




                                                HV




                                                                                                            298
                                                                                                      0


                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                      87  577     0   10


                                                      798        674 1472
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                              File Name          : BROADWAY&SPRUCEPM
                                                                                    Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                    Start Date         : 5/2/2006
                                                                                    Page No            :1


                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                       SPRUCE                    BROADWAY                         SPRUCE
                      Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right     Peds    Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds     Left   Thru Right   Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM      0      166   22        24     23     41    32      4     18     191     0       10       0       0     0      4      535
   04:15 PM      0      177   16        13     31     51    26      2     15     180     0       12       0       0     0      1      524
   04:30 PM      0      164   26        14     22     54    29      7     23     168     0       20       0       0     0      0      527
   04:45 PM      0      193   30         9     16     60    22      8     26     152     1       24       0       0     0      4      545
       Total     0      700   94        60     92    206   109     21     82     691     1       66       0       0     0      9    2131

   05:00 PM      0     209     21       14     28     60     38      4     23     182      0     30       0      0     0       5      614
   05:15 PM      0     190     26       32     32     76     29      2     23     183      0     13       0      0     0       7      613
   05:30 PM      0     171     35       19     32     72     28      5     24     151      0     13       0      0     0       6      556
   05:45 PM      0     143     27       19     19     69     20      3     34     152      0     22       0      0     0       0      508
       Total     0     713    109       84    111    277    115     14    104     668      0     78       0      0     0      18     2291

 Grand Total     0    1413     203     144    203    483     224     35   186    1359      1    144       0      0     0      27     4422
   Apprch %      0     80.3   11.5     8.2    21.5   51.1   23.7    3.7    11     80.4   0.1     8.5      0      0     0     100
    Total %      0       32     4.6     3.3    4.6   10.9    5.1    0.8    4.2    30.7     0     3.3      0      0     0      0.6
   Unshifted     0    1408     203     144    199    463     223     35   186    1349      1    144       0      0     0      27     4382
 % Unshifted     0     99.6    100     100     98    95.9   99.6    100   100     99.3   100    100       0      0     0     100      99.1
     BIKES       0        3       0       0      4     20       1     0      0       7     0       0      0      0     0        0      35
   % BIKES       0      0.2       0       0      2    4.1     0.4     0      0     0.5     0       0      0      0     0        0      0.8
         HV      0        2       0       0      0      0       0     0      0       3     0       0      0      0     0        0        5
      % HV       0      0.1       0       0      0      0       0     0      0     0.2     0       0      0      0     0        0      0.1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                           File Name                     : BROADWAY&SPRUCEPM
                                                                                                 Site Code                     : 00000000
                                                                                                 Start Date                    : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                 Page No                       :2
                                                                       BROADWAY
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                               1572       1755  3327
                                                                   8          3    11
                                                                   3          2     5
                                                               1583       1760  3343


                                                                203 1408                0 144
                                                                  0     3               0   0
                                                                  0     2               0   0
                                                                203 1413                0 144
                                                              Right Thru            Left Peds
                        879
                          20
                           0
                        899




                                          0
                                         0
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                                Right Thru
                       Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                  224


                                                                                                                  223




                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1



                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                        North
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru
                      SPRUCE




                                                                                                                                     SPRUCE
                                                               5/2/2006 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                       483


                                                                                                                       463
                           27
                            0
                            0
                           27




                                                                                                                        20
                         In




                                                               5/2/2006 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                        945


                                                                                                                                        920
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                         25
                                                                                                                Left Peds




                                                                                                                                          0
                                                               Unshifted




                                                                                                                 203


                                                                                                                 199
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    4
                        852
                         20
                           0
                        872
                       Out




                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                               HV
                                       27
                                       27
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                      946


                                                                                                                                      921
                                                                                                                                        25
                                                                                                                       35


                                                                                                                       35



                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                186 1349     1  144
                                                                   0    7    0    0
                                                                   0    3    0    0
                                                                186 1359     1  144


                                                               1607       1680  3287
                                                                   7          7    14
                                                                   2          3     5
                                                               1616       1690  3306
                                                               Out         In   Total
                                                                       BROADWAY




                    BROADWAY                             SPRUCE                             BROADWAY                                    SPRUCE
                    Southbound                          Westbound                           Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds     App. Total   Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      0 193       30     9    232    16   60   22     8         106          26   152     1     24         203          0    0       0   4            4        545
 05:00 PM      0 209       21    14    244    28   60   38     4         130          23   182     0      30        235          0    0       0   5            5        614
 05:15 PM      0 190       26    32    248    32   76   29     2         139          23   183     0     13         219          0    0       0   7            7        613
 05:30 PM      0 171       35    19    225    32   72   28     5         137          24   151     0     13         188          0    0       0   6            6        556
 Total Volume  0 763 112         74    949 108 268 117       19          512          96   668     1     80         845          0    0       0  22           22       2328
 % App. Total  0 80.4 11.8 7.8               21.1 52.3 22.9 3.7                     11.4 79.1    0.1     9.5                     0    0       0 100
        PHF .000 .913 .800 .578 .957 .844 .882 .770 .594                .921 .923 .913 .250 .667                   .899 .000 .000 .000 .786                .786         .948
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name    : BROADWAY&SPRUCEPM
                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No      :3
                                                            BROADWAY
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                      785        949 1734


                                                     112  763         0  74
                                                   Right Thru     Left Peds




                                                 Peak Hour Data
                      498


                                 0




                                                                                              Right Thru
                     Total




                             Left




                                                                                                117



                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                           1
                                                              North
                                            0
                             Peds Right Thru
                   SPRUCE




                                                                                                           SPRUCE
                                                                                                     268
                        22
                      In




                                                                                                             In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM




                                                                                                              512
                                      0




                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                               108
                                                Unshifted
                      476




                                                BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                           Total
                               22




                                                HV




                                                                                                            513
                                                                                                     19


                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                      96  668     1   80


                                                      871        845 1716
                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name            : FOLSOM&PEARLAM
                                                                                                                        Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No              :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 FOLSOM ST                                        PEARL ST                 FOLSOM ST                                 PEARL ST
                     Southbound                                      Westbound                 Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                          Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                   Peds   Left Thru Right                    Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22   126     8                             2    22    84    26      2      0     61   15                      2     3    39     9                       2       423
    07:15 AM     28   176     5                             6    29    88    23      2      8     70   20                      1     1    54     8                       2       521
    07:30 AM     35   122     8                             2    27    95    31      1      4     89   20                      2     4    66     4                       1       511
    07:45 AM     54   205    12                             5    34   112    35      2     13     75   22                      1     6    73    14                       2       665
        Total   139   629    33                            15   112   379   115      7     25    295   77                      6    14   232    35                       7     2120

    08:00 AM     36          184            11              3    21     114      45           2       12       91     23       2    8             89             15      2      658
    08:15 AM     45          168            14              5    36     124      36           3       11       85     22       2   12             88             18      3      672
    08:30 AM     41          145             9              5    35     128      38           5       15       78     19       3   11            100             21      3      656
    08:45 AM     60          164            11              2    29     109      42           2        8       94     24       2    9             74             14      2      646
        Total   182          661            45             15   121     475     161          12       46      348     88       9   40            351             68     10     2632

  Grand Total    321       1290           78               30    233     854    276          19       71      643    165      15    54           583         103         17    4752
   Apprch %     18.7          75          4.5             1.7   16.9    61.8     20         1.4      7.9      71.9   18.5    1.7   7.1            77        13.6        2.2
     Total %      6.8       27.1          1.6             0.6     4.9     18     5.8        0.4      1.5      13.5    3.5    0.3   1.1           12.3         2.2       0.4


                                                                                FOLSOM ST
                                                                                Out    In             Total
                                                                                 973  1719            2692


                                                                                  78 1290          321   30
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                            1760


                                         54




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                      276


                                                                                                                                                   1069
                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                    PEARL ST




                                                                                            North
                                                   583
                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           854
                                 757
                                In




                                                                                                                                                          1382
                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                        PEARL ST




                                              103




                                                                                4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     233
                        1003




                                                                                Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                         17




                                                                                                                                                   2451
                                                                                                                                           19




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 71  643   165   15


                                                                                1626     894          2520
                                                                                Out     In            Total
                                                                                 FOLSOM ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                     File Name                   : FOLSOM&PEARLAM
                                                                                                                     Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date                  : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                     Page No                     :2

                  FOLSOM ST                        PEARL ST                                           FOLSOM ST                             PEARL ST
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                          Northbound                            Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      54 205       12     5    276     34 112    35   2                      183          13    75   22    1      111          6         73        14          2       95         665
 08:00 AM      36 184       11     3    234     21 114    45   2                      182          12    91   23    2      128          8         89        15          2      114         658
 08:15 AM      45 168       14     5    232     36 124    36   3                      199          11    85   22    2      120         12         88        18          3      121         672
 08:30 AM      41 145        9     5    200     35 128    38   5                      206          15    78   19    3      115         11        100        21          3      135         656
 Total Volume 176 702       46    18    942 126 478 154       12                      770          51   329   86    8      474         37        350        68         10      465        2651
 % App. Total 18.7 74.5    4.9 1.9            16.4 62.1   20 1.6                           10.8 69.4 18.1  1.7                     8 75.3 14.6  2.2
      PHF .815 .856 .821 .900                          .853 .875 .934 .856 .600       .934 .850 .904 .935 .667             .926 .771 .875 .810 .833                            .861         .986

                                                                             FOLSOM ST
                                                                             Out    In               Total
                                                                              520    942             1462


                                                                              46  702             176   18
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1040


                                       37




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                          154



                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                        612

                                                                                                                                                        PEARL ST
                                                                                        North
                                                 350
                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               478
                               465
                              In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                                770
                      PEARL ST




                                             68




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
                                                                                                                                         126

                                                                        Unshifted
                       575
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                       10




                                                                                                                                                       1382
                                                                                                                                               12




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              51  329    86    8


                                                                              896    474             1370
                                                                             Out    In               Total
                                                                             FOLSOM ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name             : FOLSOM&PEARLPM
                                                                                                                        Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  FOLSOM                                          PEARL                    FOLSOM                                     PEARL
                     Southbound                                     Westbound                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                         Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                    Peds   Left Thru Right                       Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     54   106     8                            0    24    98    32      1     20    143   23                       0    16   111    15                          0       651
    04:15 PM     44    87    10                            0    19    97    35      1     13    149   25                       2    14   126    15                          4       641
    04:30 PM     53   121     6                            2    25    85    40      2     32    143   30                       3    19   127    14                          1       703
    04:45 PM     56   117     8                            1    30   115    36      1     22    172   27                       0    22   126    19                          1       753
        Total   207   431    32                            3    98   395   143      5     87    607  105                       5    71   490    63                          6     2748

    05:00 PM     53          130            5              0    28     109      74           2       32       191     26       0     32            179              24      3      888
    05:15 PM     55          136            6              0    26     118      52           2       31       174     36       2     36            136              23      5      838
    05:30 PM     54          104           10              1    36     144      46           1       23       151     21       0     15            160              28      0      794
    05:45 PM     68          162           11              0    46     103      53           1       32       154     26       1     14            116              18      0      805
        Total   230          532           32              1   136     474     225           6      118       670    109       3     97            591              93      8     3325

  Grand Total    437         963          64               4    234     869   368           11      205      1277    214       8    168           1081          156        14     6073
   Apprch %     29.8        65.6         4.4             0.3   15.8    58.6   24.8         0.7        12      74.9   12.6    0.5   11.8            76.2           11         1
     Total %      7.2       15.9         1.1             0.1     3.9   14.3    6.1         0.2       3.4       21     3.5    0.1     2.8           17.8          2.6       0.2


                                                                                FOLSOM
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                               1813  1468            3281


                                                                                 64  963          437    4
                                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2557


                                       168




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                       368


                                                                                                                                                     1732
                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                       PEARL




                                                                                           North
                                             156 1081
                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            869
                               1419
                                In




                                                                                                                                                             1482
                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                               4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                               4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                         PEARL




                                                                                                                                      234
                        1138




                                                                               Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                        14




                                                                                                                                                     3214
                                                                                                                                            11




                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               205 1277   214    8


                                                                               1353  1704            3057
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                                FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                     File Name                   : FOLSOM&PEARLPM
                                                                                                                     Site Code                   : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date                  : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                     Page No                     :2

                FOLSOM                                     PEARL                                   FOLSOM                                     PEARL
                  Southbound                                 Westbound                               Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds               App. Total    Left Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right        Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM      53 130        5     0    188     28 109   74    2                 213          32    191    26       0      249         32        179        24          3      238         888
 05:15 PM      55 136        6     0    197     26 118   52    2                 198          31    174    36       2      243         36        136        23          5      200         838
 05:30 PM      54 104       10     1    169     36 144   46    1                 227          23    151    21       0      195         15        160        28          0      203         794
 05:45 PM      68 162       11     0    241     46 103   53    1                 203          32    154    26       1      213         14        116        18          0      148         805
 Total Volume 230 532       32     1    795 136 474 225        6                 841         118    670   109       3      900         97        591        93          8      789        3325
 % App. Total 28.9 66.9      4 0.1            16.2 56.4 26.8 0.7                      13.1 74.4 12.1  0.3                       12.3 74.9 11.8    1
      PHF .846 .821 .727 .250                     .825 .739 .823 .760 .750       .926 .922 .877 .757 .375                  .904 .674 .825 .830 .400                            .829         .936

                                                                         FOLSOM
                                                                        Out    In               Total
                                                                         992    795             1787


                                                                         32  532             230    1
                                                                      Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                    Peak Hour Data
                        1413


                                  97




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                        Total




                                Left




                                                                                                                                          225



                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                        930

                                                                                                                                                         PEARL
                                                                                   North
                                            591
                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               474
                         789
                        In




                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM

                                                                                                                                                                841
                                        93




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
                       PEARL




                                                                                                                                         136

                                                                   Unshifted
                       624
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                   8




                                                                                                                                                       1771
                                                                                                                                                6




                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                        118  670   109    3


                                                                         761    900             1661
                                                                        Out    In               Total
                                                                         FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                           File Name     : REAGENT&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                           Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                           Start Date    : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                           Page No       :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       REAGENT ST                                   COLORADO                  REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right Peds                      Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right Peds                Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      0        0     1    0                       38       39     0      2      9      0   11    0                  0              34    13              3       150
    07:15 AM      0        0     1    0                       53       60     1      2     11      0   11    0                  0              38    12              8       197
    07:30 AM      0        0     0    0                       88       66     0      2     13      0   15    0                  1              50    13              6       254
    07:45 AM      2        1     0    0                      132       87     3     11     18      0    5    0                  4              46    24             17       350
        Total     2        1     2    0                      311      252     4     17     51      0   42    0                  5             168    62             34       951

    08:00 AM      0              0              1        1   107      82        0          7       36       0    12      1       3            53             36     11      350
    08:15 AM      0              0              1        0    92      81        1          1       34       0    26      0       0            63             21      8      328
    08:30 AM      1              0              1        0   107     103        1          7       15       0    14      0       0            53             26     14      342
    08:45 AM      0              0              0        0   118      93        2          6       22       0    19      0       0            39             40      9      348
        Total     1              0              3        1   424     359        4         21      107       0    71      1       3           208            123     42     1368

  Grand Total     3             1          5             1    735     611       8         38      158       0    113      1     8            376            185    76      2319
   Apprch %      30            10         50            10   52.8    43.9     0.6        2.7     58.1       0   41.5    0.4   1.2            58.3          28.7   11.8
     Total %    0.1             0        0.2             0   31.7    26.3     0.3        1.6       6.8      0    4.9      0   0.3            16.2             8    3.3


                                                                                 REAGENT ST
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                               16      10      26


                                                                                5     1            3   1
                                                                            Right Thru         Left Peds
                           1419


                                          8




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                492
                                                                                                                                   8




                                                                                         North
                                                  376




                                                                                                                                               COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      611
                                645
                               In




                                                                                                                                                  1392
                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                             4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                             185




                                                                             4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                735
                        774




                                                                             Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                        76




                                                                                                                                                        1884
                                                                                                                                      38




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             158     0  113    1


                                                                              921     272   1193
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                                 REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                              File Name            : REAGENT&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                              Page No              :2

                   REAGENT ST                                      COLORADO                             REAGENT ST                                       COLORADO
                   Southbound                                      Westbound                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM        2     1     0     0       3 132     87   3  11                       233          18    0    5         0       23          4         46       24            17       91         350
 08:00 AM        0     0     1     1       2 107     82   0    7                      196          36    0  12          1       49          3         53       36            11      103         350
 08:15 AM        0     0     1     0       1    92   81   1    1                      175          34    0  26          0       60          0         63       21             8       92         328
 08:30 AM        1     0     1     0       2 107 103      1    7                      218          15    0  14          0       29          0         53       26            14       93         342
 Total Volume    3     1     3     1       8 438 353      5  26                       822         103    0  57          1      161          7        215      107            50      379        1370
 % App. Total 37.5 12.5 37.5 12.5             53.3 42.9 0.6 3.2                                    64    0 35.4
                                                                                                           0.6                       1.8 56.7 28.2 13.2
      PHF .375 .250 .750 .250                          .667 .830 .857 .417 .591       .882 .715 .000 .548 .250                 .671 .438 .853 .743 .735                              .920         .979

                                                                                 REAGENT ST
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                               12       8      20


                                                                               3     1               3   1
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                           838


                                         7




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                            275
                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                        North
                                                 215




                                                                                                                                                           COLORADO
                          COLORADO




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   353
                               379
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM

                                                                                                                                                               822
                                            107




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             438

                                                                        Unshifted
                       459
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                       50




                                                                                                                                                                    1097
                                                                                                                                                   26




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             103     0   57    1


                                                                              546     161    707
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                                 REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                            File Name     : REAGENT&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                            Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date    : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                            Page No       :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO                  REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO
                       Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right Peds                       Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right Peds                Left           Thru Right            Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0        0     0    1                        49       80     0     15     30      0   88    1                  0             116    28              36       444
    04:15 PM      0        0     1    0                        50       50     0     20     44      0   86    0                  0             108    34              33       426
    04:30 PM      1        0     0    0                        36       82     1     12     38      0   68    0                  0              90    30              18       376
    04:45 PM      1        0     0    0                        59       89     1      6     28      0   88    0                  0             110    31              13       426
        Total     2        0     1    1                       194      301     2     53    140      0  330    1                  0             424  123              100     1672

    05:00 PM      0              0              0        0     83      97        1          7       66       0    108     0       0           169             29      24      584
    05:15 PM      0              0              0        0     50      74        1         11       58       2    105     0       1           165             28      22      517
    05:30 PM      0              0              1        0     74      76        0          6       44       0    102     0       0           140             20       9      472
    05:45 PM      1              0              1        1     78     128        1         12       49       0     60     0       1           121             33      14      500
        Total     1              0              2        1    285     375        3         36      217       2    375     0       2           595            110      69     2073

  Grand Total      3             0       3                2    479     676       5         89      357        2    705     1     2           1019            233    169      3745
   Apprch %     37.5             0    37.5               25   38.4    54.1     0.4        7.1     33.5      0.2   66.2   0.1   0.1            71.6          16.4    11.9
     Total %     0.1             0     0.1              0.1   12.8    18.1     0.1        2.4       9.5     0.1   18.8     0   0.1            27.2            6.2    4.5


                                                                                     REAGENT ST
                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                    9       8      17


                                                                                 3     0            3   2
                                                                             Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2459


                                          2




                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                1727
                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                          North
                                             233 1019




                                                                                                                                                COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                       676
                               1423
                                In




                                                                                                                                                   1249
                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                              4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                              4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 479
                       1036




                                                                              Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                       169




                                                                                                                                                         2976
                                                                                                                                       89




                                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              357     2  705    1


                                                                               712   1065    1777
                                                                              Out     In     Total
                                                                                  REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                              File Name            : REAGENT&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                              Page No              :2

                   REAGENT ST                                      COLORADO                             REAGENT ST                                       COLORADO
                   Southbound                                      Westbound                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total    Left Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru          Right          Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM      0       0     0     0       0    83   97   1    7                      188          66    0    108       0      174          0        169       29            24      222         584
 05:15 PM      0       0     0     0       0    50   74   1  11                       136          58    2    105       0      165          1        165       28            22      216         517
 05:30 PM      0       0     1     0       1    74   76   0    6                      156          44    0    102       0      146          0        140       20             9      169         472
 05:45 PM      1       0     1     1       3    78 128    1  12                       219          49    0     60       0      109          1        121       33            14      169         500
 Total Volume  1       0     2     1       4 285 375      3  36                       699         217    2    375       0      594          2        595      110            69      776        2073
 % App. Total 25       0    50    25          40.8 53.6 0.4 5.2                            36.5   0.3 63.1   0                       0.3 76.7 14.2  8.9
      PHF .250 .000 .500 .250                          .333 .858 .732 .750 .750       .798 .822 .250 .868 .000                 .853 .500 .880 .833 .719                              .874         .887

                                                                                    REAGENT ST
                                                                             Out        In     Total
                                                                                   7       4      11


                                                                               2     0               1   1
                                                                           Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                          1370


                                         2




                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                                                                            971
                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                        North
                                                 595




                                                                                                                                                           COLORADO
                          COLORADO




                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                   375
                               776
                              In




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM

                                                                                                                                                               699
                                            110




                                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                             285

                                                                        Unshifted
                       594
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                       69




                                                                                                                                                                    1670
                                                                                                                                                   36




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             217     2  375    0


                                                                              395     594    989
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                                 REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                             File Name          : REGENT&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                             Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date         : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                             Page No            :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 BROADWAY                                       REGENT                   BROADWAY                                  REGENT
                     Southbound                                    Westbound                 Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                  Peds    Left Thru Right                  Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      4   146     1                           1     7     2     1      3      0    191   32                     9      2     1     1                     0       401
    07:15 AM     11   152     3                           1     5     2    12      4      1    231   44                    14      5     2     2                     3       492
    07:30 AM     12   185     2                           2     5     3    11     26      0    325   68                    32      4     4     0                     1       680
    07:45 AM     24   174     2                           0     5     5    15     12      0    334   49                    15      8     5     0                     1       649
        Total    51   657     8                           4    22    12    39     45      1 1081    193                    70     19    12     3                     5     2222

    08:00 AM     16         176            4              2     8     6      10           6        0       328     46      18      7            5             3      0      635
    08:15 AM     13         192            4              1    10     8      18           9        0       306     67      18      4            0             1      0      651
    08:30 AM     29         179            7              5    17     5      29          28        0       388     74      50      9            3             1      0      824
    08:45 AM     24         171            6              4    16     6      24          17        0       314     45      30     10            2             1      3      673
        Total    82         718           21             12    51    25      81          60        0      1336    232     116     30           10             6      3     2783

  Grand Total   133       1375          29               16     73    37   120       105           1      2417    425     186      49          22           9         8    5005
   Apprch %      8.6       88.5         1.9               1   21.8    11   35.8     31.3           0       79.8     14    6.1    55.7          25        10.2       9.1
     Total %     2.7       27.5         0.6             0.3    1.5   0.7    2.4       2.1          0       48.3    8.5    3.7       1          0.4        0.2       0.2


                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                            Out    In             Total
                                                                            2586  1553            4139


                                                                              29 1375          133   16
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                           155


                                       49




                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                    120



                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                 580

                                                                                                                                                 REGENT




                                                                                        North
                                                  22
                                     Peds Right Thru
                                88




                                                                                                                                          37
                              In




                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                            4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                        335
                                              9
                       REGENT




                                                                            4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
                                                                                                                                    73
                         67




                                                                            Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                Total
                                        8




                                                                                                                                                 915
                                                                                                                                        105




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               1 2417  425  186


                                                                            1457  3029            4486
                                                                            Out    In             Total
                                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                            File Name                : REGENT&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                            Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date               : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                            Page No                  :2

                BROADWAY                           REGENT                                           BROADWAY                                REGENT
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                         Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                   App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru             Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      16 176        4     2    198      8    6  10     6                     30           0 328     46    18    392            7             5          3        0         15       635
 08:15 AM      13 192        4     1    210     10    8  18     9                     45           0 306     67    18    391            4             0          1        0          5       651
 08:30 AM      29 179        7     5    220     17    5  29   28                      79           0 388     74    50    512            9             3          1        0         13       824
 08:45 AM      24 171        6     4    205     16    6  24   17                      63           0 314     45    30    389           10             2          1        3         16       673
 Total Volume  82 718       21    12    833     51   25  81   60                     217           0 1336   232   116   1684           30            10          6        3         49      2783
 % App. Total 9.8 86.2 2.5 1.4                23.5 11.5 37.3 27.6                            0 79.3 13.8  6.9                  61.2 20.4 12.2  6.1
      PHF .707 .935 .750 .600                         .947 .750 .781 .698 .536       .687 .000 .861 .784 .580             .822 .750 .500 .500 .250                               .766         .844

                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                            Out   In                Total
                                                                            1447   833              2280


                                                                             21  718              82   12
                                                                          Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                            95


                                      30




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                         Total




                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                           81


                                                                                                                                                           324

                                                                                                                                                           REGENT
                                                                                       North
                                                 10
                                    Peds Right Thru
                               49




                                                                                                                                                25
                             In




                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM

                                                                                                                                                                  217
                                             6
                      REGENT




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds


                                                                       Unshifted
                                                                                                                                          51
                        46
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                       3




                                                                                                                                                           541
                                                                                                                                               60




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               0 1336  232  116


                                                                             775  1684              2459
                                                                            Out    In               Total
                                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                               File Name         : REGENT&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                               Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                               Page No           :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 BROADWAY                                       REGENT                   BROADWAY                                   REGENT
                     Southbound                                    Westbound                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                   Peds    Left Thru Right                    Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     44   368     2                           2    54    19    19     14      0    396   13                     10      9     8     6                       0       964
    04:15 PM     39   374     7                           4    63    17    37     35      0    382    5                      9      6    10     6                       8     1002
    04:30 PM     20   375     5                          15    54     7    38      8      0    383    7                      9     12     8     9                       0       950
    04:45 PM     42   389     6                          13    58    17    35     20      0    329    5                     26     18     7    12                       5       982
        Total   145 1506     20                          34   229    60   129     77      0 1490     30                     54     45    33    33                      13     3898

    05:00 PM     42        433            11             10    70      27      30          49        0       378     8       8      10             4             5      0     1085
    05:15 PM     24        411             8              9   104       7      33          19        0       314    16       9       9            20             4      0      987
    05:30 PM     28        461             6              1    71       9      31          22        1       349    10      14      13             7             6      0     1029
    05:45 PM     55        412             9              6    66      24      22          31        0       364    14      26      23            17             3      0     1072
        Total   149       1717            34             26   311      67     116         121        1      1405    48      57      55            48            18      0     4173

  Grand Total   294       3223          54               60    540     127   245       198           1      2895     78    111     100            81         51        13     8071
   Apprch %      8.1       88.8         1.5             1.7   48.6    11.4   22.1     17.8           0       93.8   2.5    3.6    40.8           33.1      20.8        5.3
     Total %     3.6       39.9         0.7             0.7     6.7    1.6      3       2.5          0       35.9     1    1.4      1.2             1       0.6        0.2


                                                                              BROADWAY
                                                                              Out    In             Total
                                                                              3240  3631            6871


                                                                                54 3223          294   60
                                                                             Right Thru         Left Peds
                           427


                                      100




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                      245



                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                    453

                                                                                                                                                    REGENT




                                                                                          North
                                                  81
                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           127
                               245
                              In




                                                                                                                                                         1110
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                              4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                             51
                       REGENT




                                                                              4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     540
                        182




                                                                              Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                       13




                                                                                                                                                   1563
                                                                                                                                          198




                                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 1 2895   78  111


                                                                              3814  3085            6899
                                                                              Out    In             Total
                                                                              BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                            File Name                : REGENT&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                            Site Code                : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date               : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                            Page No                  :2

                 BROADWAY                          REGENT                                           BROADWAY                                REGENT
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                         Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                   App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total    Left Thru             Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM       42 433      11    10    496     70   27  30   49                     176           0 378      8    8     394           10             4        5          0       19        1085
 05:15 PM       24 411       8     9    452 104       7  33   19                     163           0 314     16    9     339            9            20        4          0       33         987
 05:30 PM       28 461       6     1    496     71    9  31   22                     133           1 349     10   14     374           13             7        6          0       26        1029
 05:45 PM       55 412       9     6    482     66   24  22   31                     143           0 364     14   26     404           23            17        3          0       43        1072
 Total Volume 149 1717      34    26 1926 311        67 116 121                      615           1 1405    48   57    1511           55            48       18          0      121        4173
 % App. Total  7.7 89.1 1.8 1.3               50.6 10.9 18.9 19.7                          0.1   93   3.2 3.8                  45.5 39.7 14.9    0
      PHF .677 .931 .773 .650                         .971 .748 .620 .879 .617       .874 .250 .929 .750 .548             .935 .598 .600 .750 .000                               .703         .962

                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                            Out    In               Total
                                                                            1576  1926              3502


                                                                             34 1717             149   26
                                                                          Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                        Peak Hour Data
                          223


                                      55




                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                         Total




                                    Left




                                                                                                                                          116



                                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                                           245

                                                                                                                                                           REGENT
                                                                                       North
                                                 48
                                    Peds Right Thru
                              121




                                                                                                                                                67
                             In




                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM

                                                                                                                                                                  615
                                            18
                      REGENT




                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
                                                                                                                                         311

                                                                       Unshifted
                       102
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                       0




                                                                                                                                                           860
                                                                                                                                              121




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               1 1405   48   57


                                                                            2046  1511              3557
                                                                            Out    In               Total
                                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                    File Name        : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY             BROADWAY                                             UNIVERSITY
                         Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                            Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds    Left           Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2        108     1                               1     9         5     5      2     14    104   15                    3      1               6    25                   3       304
    07:15 AM      2        121     3                               1    18        10     5      0      8    133   33                    7      3              15    25                   4       388
    07:30 AM      6        122     2                               5    27         5     2      2     14    163   43                    4      1               8    40                   7       451
    07:45 AM     10        144     3                              22    33        11     4     16     26    190   49                   38      6              22    34                  32       640
        Total    20        495     9                              29    87        31    16     20     62    590  140                   52     11              51   124                  46     1783

    08:00 AM      6             151                 0              4    21        8       2           4       27       247     48      17      6             15                  22     21      599
    08:15 AM      7             133                 7             22    40        9       4           5       22       246     41      27      5             24                  22     20      634
    08:30 AM      4             154                 3             20    31       12       4          19       24       231     29      37      5             23                  22     14      632
    08:45 AM      5             149                 8             14    42       11       7          11       28       249     50      23     10             20                  30     14      671
        Total    22             587                18             60   134       40      17          39      101       973    168     104     26             82                  96     69     2536

  Grand Total    42         1082                 27               89    221       71    33        59         163      1563    308     156     37            133            220        115      4319
   Apprch %     3.4          87.3                2.2             7.2   57.6     18.5    8.6     15.4          7.4      71.4   14.1    7.1    7.3            26.3           43.6       22.8
     Total %      1          25.1                0.6             2.1     5.1     1.6    0.8      1.4          3.8      36.2    7.1     3.6   0.9             3.1            5.1        2.7


                                                                                               BROADWAY
                                                                                        Out        In   Total
                                                                                        1633      1240  2873


                                                                                          27 1082           42   89
                                                                                       Right Thru         Left Peds
                                       766


                                                37




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                 33


                                                                                                                                                               483




                                                                                                    North
                                                          133




                                                                                                                                                              UNIVERSITY
                           UNIVERSITY




                                              Peds Right Thru
                                 505




                                                                                                                                                      71
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                        4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                   384
                                                     220




                                                                                        4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                                               221
                        261




                                                                                        Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                               115




                                                                                                                                                                          867
                                                                                                                                                     59




                                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        163 1563   308  156


                                                                                        1523  2190            3713
                                                                                        Out    In             Total
                                                                                        BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name        : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                                Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No          :2

                    BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY                         BROADWAY                                        UNIVERSITY
                    Southbound                                            Westbound                              Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                            App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru              Right           Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM       6 151        0     4    161     21    8   2    4                               35          27 247   48     17     339           6            15         22            21       64         599
 08:15 AM       7 133        7    22    169     40    9   4    5                               58          22 246   41     27     336           5            24         22            20       71         634
 08:30 AM       4 154        3    20    181     31   12   4  19                                66          24 231   29     37     321           5            23         22            14       64         632
 08:45 AM       5 149        8    14    176     42   11   7  11                                71          28 249   50     23     350          10            20         30            14       74         671
 Total Volume  22 587       18    60    687 134      40  17  39                               230         101 973 168     104    1346          26            82         96            69      273        2536
 % App. Total 3.2 85.4 2.6 8.7                58.3 17.4 7.4  17                                           7.5 72.3 12.5
                                                                                                                   7.7                   9.5   30 35.2 25.3
      PHF .786 .953 .563 .682                                  .949 .798 .833 .607 .513       .810 .902 .977 .840 .703             .961 .650 .854 .800 .821                                   .922         .945

                                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                                                     1016        687 1703


                                                                                      18  587              22   60
                                                                                   Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      432


                                               26




                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                   17


                                                                                                                                                                   272
                                                                                                North
                                                          82




                                                                                                                                                                  UNIVERSITY
                          UNIVERSITY




                                             Peds Right Thru
                                273




                                                                                                                                                        40
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM

                                                                                                                                                                       230
                                                     96




                                                                                                                                                Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                 134

                                                                                Unshifted
                       159
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                               69




                                                                                                                                                                              502
                                                                                                                                                       39




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     101  973   168  104


                                                                                      817  1346              2163
                                                                                     Out    In               Total
                                                                                     BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                    File Name        : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY             BROADWAY                                            UNIVERSITY
                         Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                            Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right             Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     10        245     8                              27    53        18     9     30     17    218   73                   62    14              39    24               47       894
    04:15 PM      4        243     3                              23    54        19     7     27     27    229   67                   64     7              32    24               21       851
    04:30 PM     11        212     7                              24    68        28     5     19     31    231   42                   58    16              38    20               38       848
    04:45 PM      5        240     8                              27    54        18     8     24     29    227   81                   57    14              38    39               14       883
        Total    30        940    26                             101   229        83    29    100    104    905  263                  241    51             147   107              120     3476

    05:00 PM      9          262                   12             18    66       19       2          24       37       231     76      57    13             26               26     24      902
    05:15 PM      6          304                   10             15    74       20      13          12       31       272     60      47    14             35               28      9      950
    05:30 PM      5          224                    7             23    62       26       4          12       26       230     76      41     8             29               19     33      825
    05:45 PM     13          271                    8             16    68       28       8          14       28       237     62      39    10             41               30     35      908
        Total    33         1061                   37             72   270       93      27          62      122       970    274     184    45            131              103    101     3585

  Grand Total    63         2001                 63              173    499      176    56       162         226      1875    537     425     96           278             210    221      7061
   Apprch %     2.7            87                2.7             7.5   55.9     19.7    6.3     18.1          7.4      61.2   17.5   13.9   11.9           34.5           26.1    27.5
     Total %    0.9          28.3                0.9             2.5     7.1     2.5    0.8       2.3         3.2      26.6    7.6      6    1.4            3.9              3     3.1


                                                                                               BROADWAY
                                                                                        Out        In   Total
                                                                                        2027      2300  4327


                                                                                          63 2001           63  173
                                                                                       Right Thru         Left Peds
                                      1270


                                                96




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                56


                                                                                                                                                              878




                                                                                                    North
                                                          278




                                                                                                                                                             UNIVERSITY
                           UNIVERSITY




                                              Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                    176
                                 805
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                        4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                  893
                                                     210




                                                                                        4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                             Left Peds
                                                                                                                                              499
                        465




                                                                                        Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                               221




                                                                                                                                                                        1771
                                                                                                                                                   162




                                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        226 1875   537  425


                                                                                        2710  3063            5773
                                                                                        Out    In             Total
                                                                                        BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name         : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                                Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No           :2

                    BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY                         BROADWAY                                         UNIVERSITY
                    Southbound                                            Westbound                              Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                            App. Total    Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru           Right           Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM       9 262       12    18    301     66   19  2   24                               111          37   231    76    57    401          13         26       26              24       89         902
 05:15 PM       6 304       10    15    335     74   20 13   12                               119          31   272    60    47    410          14         35       28               9       86         950
 05:30 PM       5 224        7    23    259     62   26  4   12                               104          26   230    76    41    373           8         29       19              33       89         825
 05:45 PM      13 271        8    16    308     68   28  8   14                               118          28   237    62    39    366          10         41       30              35      116         908
 Total Volume  33 1061      37    72 1203 270        93 27   62                               452         122   970   274   184   1550          45        131      103             101      380        3585
 % App. Total 2.7 88.2 3.1         6          59.7 20.6  6 13.7                                     7.9 62.6 17.7 11.9                   11.8 34.5 27.1 26.6
      PHF .635 .873 .771 .783                                  .898 .912 .830 .519 .646       .950 .824 .892 .901 .807              .945 .804 .799 .858 .721                                .819         .943

                                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                                     Out        In   Total
                                                                                     1042      1203  2245


                                                                                      37 1061              33   72
                                                                                   Right Thru            Left Peds




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      632


                                               45




                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                     Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                    27


                                                                                                                                                                 438
                                                                                                North
                                                         131




                                                                                                                                                                UNIVERSITY
                          UNIVERSITY




                                             Peds Right Thru
                                380




                                                                                                                                                         93
                               In




                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM

                                                                                                                                                                     452
                                                    103




                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                  270

                                                                                Unshifted
                       252
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                              101




                                                                                                                                                                            890
                                                                                                                                                        62




                                                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                     122  970   274  184


                                                                                     1434  1550              2984
                                                                                     Out    In               Total
                                                                                     BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                             File Name    : WBUS36&BASELINEAM
                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                   Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   WB US36 RAMP                   BASELINE                 WB US36 RAMP                BASELINE
                    Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds         Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds     Left   Thru Right   Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     18   112     0    2           0     0       0     0       0    111      8  2    100       1    25      0      379
   07:15 AM     31   107     0    0           0     0       0     0       0    133     23  7     88       5    39      0      433
   07:30 AM     48   150     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    166     16  5    117       1    41      1      549
   07:45 AM     65   190     0    0           0     0       0     0       0    220     20  3    135       7    39      0      679
       Total   162   559     0    6           0     0       0     0       0    630     67 17    440      14   144      1    2040

   08:00 AM     64     178       0     2      0     0     0      0     0    195     15     3    119      3    35       0      614
   08:15 AM     54     178       0     3      0     0     0      0     0    214     22     4    134      3    49       0      661
   08:30 AM     55     164       0     4      0     0     0      0     0    212     19     5    109      5    39       2      614
   08:45 AM     76     154       0     0      0     0     0      0     0    221     20     3    147     11    38       0      670
       Total   249     674       0     9      0     0     0      0     0    842     76    15    509     22   161       2     2559

 Grand Total   411    1233       0    15      0     0     0      0     0   1472    143     32   949     36   305       3     4599
   Apprch %    24.8    74.3      0    0.9     0     0     0      0     0    89.4    8.7   1.9   73.4   2.8   23.6    0.2
    Total %     8.9    26.8      0    0.3     0     0     0      0     0      32    3.1   0.7   20.6   0.8    6.6    0.1
   Unshifted   410    1229       0    13      0     0     0      0     0   1465    141     32   948     36   302       3     4579
 % Unshifted   99.8    99.7      0   86.7     0     0     0      0     0    99.5   98.6   100   99.9   100     99    100      99.6
     BIKES        0       1      0      1     0     0     0      0     0       2      0     0      0     0      0      0         4
   % BIKES        0     0.1      0    6.7     0     0     0      0     0     0.1      0     0      0     0      0      0       0.1
         HV       1       3      0      1     0     0     0      0     0       5      2     0      1     0      3      0       16
      % HV      0.2     0.2      0    6.7     0     0     0      0     0     0.3    1.4     0    0.1     0      1      0       0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                                 File Name               : WBUS36&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                       Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                       Start Date              : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                       Page No                 :2
                                                                  WB US36 RAMP
                                                               Out      In   Total
                                                               2413    1652   4065
                                                                   2       2     4
                                                                   6       5    11
                                                               2421    1659   4080


                                                                  0 1229          410   13
                                                                  0     1            0   1
                                                                  0     3            1   1
                                                                  0 1233          411   15
                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                       1289


                       1293
                           0
                           4




                                      949
                                      948
                                         0
                                         1




                                                                                                               Right Thru
                       Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                      590


                                                                                                                                      587
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                        North
                                                  36
                                                  36
                                                    0
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           BASELINE
                      BASELINE




                                                               5/2/2006 07:00 AM
                         1289


                         1293
                             0
                             4
                          In




                                                               5/2/2006 08:45 AM




                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                              In
                                            305
                                            302
                                              0
                                              3




                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                               Unshifted
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                             0
                             0
                             0
                             0
                       Out




                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                               HV
                                        3
                                        3
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                      590


                                                                                                                                      587
                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                   0 1465  141   32
                                                                   0    2    0    0
                                                                   0    5    2    0
                                                                   0 1472  143   32


                                                               1531    1638   3169
                                                                   1       2     3
                                                                   6       7    13
                                                               1538    1647   3185
                                                               Out      In   Total
                                                                  WB US36 RAMP




                  WB US36 RAMP                          BASELINE                        WB US36 RAMP                                   BASELINE
                   Southbound                           Westbound                        Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total    Left Thru    Right    Peds     App. Total   Left Thru   Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM      65 190       0     0    255      0    0   0     0           0        0   220    20         3        243        135      7  39            0      181         679
 08:00 AM      64 178       0     2    244      0    0   0     0           0        0   195    15         3        213        119      3  35            0      157         614
 08:15 AM      54 178       0     3    235      0    0   0     0           0        0   214     22        4        240        134      3  49            0      186         661
 08:30 AM      55 164       0     4    223      0    0   0     0           0        0   212    19         5        236        109      5  39            2      155         614
 Total Volume 238 710       0     9    957      0    0   0     0           0        0   841    76       15         932        497    18 162             2      679        2568
 % App. Total 24.9 74.2     0 0.9               0    0   0     0                    0   90.2   8.2      1.6                   73.2   2.7 23.9         0.3
        PHF .915 .934 .000 .563 .938 .000 .000 .000 .000             .000 .000 .956 .864 .750                     .959 .920 .643 .827 .250                    .913         .946
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                          File Name    : WBUS36&BASELINEAM
                                                                                Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                                Page No      :3
                                                         WB US36 RAMP
                                                      Out     In    Total
                                                      1338     957   2295


                                                        0  710     238    9
                                                    Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                  Peak Hour Data
                      679


                                497




                                                                                             Right Thru
                     Total




                               Left




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            332
                                                                                                 0
                                                              North
                                            18
                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                           BASELINE
                   BASELINE

                        679
                       In




                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                              In
                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                      162




                                                                                             Left Peds



                                                                                                                 0
                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                 0
                           0




                                                 BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                                    Total
                                  2




                                                 HV




                                                                                                                     332
                                                                                                     0


                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                         0 841    76   15


                                                       872     932   1804
                                                      Out     In    Total
                                                         WB US36 RAMP
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                             File Name     : WBUS36&BASELINEPM
                                                                                   Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                   Start Date    : 5/2/2006
                                                                                   Page No       :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   WB US36 RAMP                   BASELINE                 WB US36 RAMP                 BASELINE
                    Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds         Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds      Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     92   191     0    6           0     0       0     0       0    242     18 2       80       1    20       0      652
   04:15 PM     76   165     0   12           0     0       0     0       0    235     19 3      116       4    22       0      652
   04:30 PM     85   154     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    260     27 0       71       4    32       0      637
   04:45 PM     63   176     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    263     24 4       69       2    31       0      636
       Total   316   686     0   26           0     0       0     0       0 1000       88 9      336      11   105       0    2577

   05:00 PM     93     216       0     5      0     0     0     0      0    286     21      1     87      4     31       0      744
   05:15 PM     78     211       0     3      0     0     0     0      0    301     24      5     83      4     39       0      748
   05:30 PM     81     171       0     0      0     0     0     0      0    299     24      2    104      5     31       0      717
   05:45 PM     81     176       0     7      0     0     0     0      0    253     17      2     87      1     31       0      655
       Total   333     774       0    15      0     0     0     0      0   1139     86     10    361     14    132       0     2864

 Grand Total   649    1460       0    41      0     0     0     0      0   2139    174     19    697     25    237       0     5441
   Apprch %    30.2    67.9      0    1.9     0     0     0     0      0    91.7    7.5    0.8   72.7    2.6   24.7      0
    Total %    11.9    26.8      0    0.8     0     0     0     0      0    39.3    3.2    0.3   12.8    0.5    4.4      0
   Unshifted   647    1459       0    41      0     0     0     0      0   2139    173      19   697     25    237       0     5437
 % Unshifted   99.7    99.9      0   100      0     0     0     0      0    100    99.4   100    100    100    100       0      99.9
     BIKES        0       0      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      1      0      0      0      0      0         1
   % BIKES        0       0      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0    0.6      0      0      0      0      0         0
         HV       2       1      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0         3
      % HV      0.3     0.1      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0.1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                                 File Name               : WBUS36&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                       Site Code               : 00000000
                                                                                                       Start Date              : 5/2/2006
                                                                                                       Page No                 :2
                                                                  WB US36 RAMP
                                                               Out      In   Total
                                                               2836    2147   4983
                                                                   0       0     0
                                                                   0       3     3
                                                               2836    2150   4986


                                                                  0 1459          647   41
                                                                  0     0            0   0
                                                                  0     1            2   0
                                                                  0 1460          649   41
                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                        959
                           0
                           0
                        959




                                      697
                                      697
                                         0
                                         0




                                                                                                               Right Thru
                       Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                      848


                                                                                                                                      845
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                        North
                                                  25
                                                  25
                                                    0
                                                    0

                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           BASELINE
                      BASELINE




                                                               5/2/2006 04:00 PM
                           959
                             0
                             0
                           959
                          In




                                                               5/2/2006 05:45 PM




                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                              In
                                            237
                                            237
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                               Left Peds




                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                               Unshifted
                                                               BIKES




                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                             0
                             0
                             0
                             0
                       Out




                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                               HV
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0
                                        0




                                                                                                                                      848


                                                                                                                                      845
                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                   0 2139  173   19
                                                                   0    0    1    0
                                                                   0    0    0    0
                                                                   0 2139  174   19


                                                               1696    2331   4027
                                                                   0       1     1
                                                                   1       0     1
                                                               1697    2332   4029
                                                               Out      In   Total
                                                                  WB US36 RAMP




                  WB US36 RAMP                          BASELINE                        WB US36 RAMP                                   BASELINE
                   Southbound                           Westbound                        Northbound                                    Eastbound
 Start Time Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total    Left Thru    Right    Peds     App. Total   Left Thru   Right       Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM      93 216       0     5    314      0    0   0     0           0        0   286     21        1       308  87              4 31             0      122         744
 05:15 PM      78 211       0     3    292      0    0   0     0           0        0   301     24        5       330  83              4 39             0      126         748
 05:30 PM      81 171       0     0    252      0    0   0     0           0        0   299     24        2       325 104              5 31             0      140         717
 05:45 PM      81 176       0     7    264      0    0   0     0           0        0   253     17        2       272  87              1 31             0      119         655
 Total Volume 333 774       0    15 1122        0    0   0     0           0        0   1139    86      10       1235 361            14 132             0      507        2864
 % App. Total 29.7  69      0 1.3               0    0   0     0                    0 92.2       7      0.8                   71.2   2.8 26             0
        PHF .895 .896 .000 .536 .893 .000 .000 .000 .000             .000        .000 .946 .896 .500              .936 .868 .700 .846 .000                    .905         .957
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                          File Name    : WBUS36&BASELINEPM
                                                                                Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                Start Date   : 5/2/2006
                                                                                Page No      :3
                                                         WB US36 RAMP
                                                      Out      In   Total
                                                      1500    1122   2622


                                                        0  774     333   15
                                                    Right Thru    Left Peds




                                                  Peak Hour Data
                      507


                                361




                                                                                             Right Thru
                     Total




                               Left




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            433
                                                                                                 0
                                                              North
                                            14
                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                           BASELINE
                   BASELINE

                        507
                       In




                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                              In
                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                      132




                                                                                             Left Peds



                                                                                                                 0
                                                 Unshifted




                                                                                                 0
                           0




                                                 BIKES
                     Out




                                                                                                                    Total
                                  0




                                                 HV




                                                                                                                     433
                                                                                                     0


                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                         0 1139   86   10


                                                       906    1235   2141
                                                      Out      In   Total
                                                         WB US36 RAMP
